{"Xeroderma pigmentosum": {"description": "Xeroderma\u00a0pigmentosum is a rare condition passed down through families in which the skin and tissue covering the eye are extremely sensitive to ultraviolet light.", "Possible Complications": "Change in appearance of skin (disfigurement), Skin cancer. ", "Symptoms": ["Sunburn that does not heal after just a little bit of sun exposure", "Blistering after just a little bit of sun exposure", "Spider-like blood vessels under the skin", "Patches of discolored skin that get worse", "Crusting of the skin", "Scaling of the skin", "Oozing raw skin surface", "Discomfort when being in bright light (photophobia)", "Skin cancer"], "Exams and Tests": "The doctor will perform a physical exam and ask if you have a family history of xeroderma pigmentosum.An eye exam may show:Clouding of the cornea, Keratitis, Lid tumors, Blepharitis. The following tests can help diagnose the condition in a baby before the birth:Amniocentesis, Chorionic villous sampling, Culture of amniotic cells . The following tests can help diagnose the disorder after the birth of the child:Culture of skin fibroblasts, Skin biopsy. ", "Treatment": "Children with this condition need total protection from sunlight. Even the light coming through windows or from fluorescent bulbs is dangerous.When these children go out in the sun, they need to wear protective clothing.Use high protection (SPF 70 or greater) sunscreen and very dark, UV sunglasses. Your doctor may prescribe medicine to help prevent certain precancerous growths from becoming skin cancers.", "Causes": "Xeroderma pigmentosum is an autosomal recessive disorder. This means you must have two copies of an abnormal gene in order for the disease or trait to develop.Ultraviolet light, such as\u00a0from sunlight, damages the genetic material (DNA) in skin cells. Normally, the body repairs this damage. But in persons with xeroderma pigmentosum, the body does not fix the damage. As a result, the skin gets very thin and patches of varying color (splotchy pigmentation) appear.The condition also causes spidery blood vessels in the skin (telangiectasia) and skin cancer. Skin cancer often occurs before the child is 5 years old.", "Prevention": "Experts recommend genetic counseling for persons with a family history of xeroderma pigmentosum who wish to have children."}}