{"Q fever": {"description": "Q fever is a bacterial infection that can affect the lungs, liver, heart, and other parts of the body.", "Possible Complications": "Q fever may lead to these complications:Bone infection, Brain infection, Inflammation of the heart valves, heart lining, or heart muscle, Liver infection, Lung scarring, Inflammation of the thin tissue that surrounds the brain and spinal cord, Pneumonia. ", "Symptoms": ["Dry cough", "Fever", "Headache", "Joint pain", "Muscle pain ", "Abdominal pain", "Chest pain", "Rash", "Yellow skin (jaundice) ", "Chills", "Fatigue", "Night sweats", "Prolonged fever", "Shortness of breath "], "Exams and Tests": "A health care provider will suspect Q fever in people who have been exposed to the Coxiella burnetii bacteria who develop:Inflammation of the inside lining of the heart and heart valves, Flu-like symptoms, Inflammation of the liver, Pneumonia . Q fever is diagnosed with a blood antibody test.", "Treatment": "The main treatment for Q fever is antibiotics. For early-stage Q fever, doxycycline is the recommended antibiotic.If you have the infection for more than 6 months, it is called chronic Q fever. Your health care provider may prescribe both doxycycline and hydroxychloroquine. You may need to take antibiotics for several months or years.", "Causes": "Q fever is found around the world and is caused by the bacteria Coxiella burnetii. These bacteria can infect: Sheep, Goats, Cattle, Dogs, Cats, Birds, Rodents, Ticks. Infected animals shed these bacteria in:Birth products, Feces, Milk, Urine . Humans usually get Q fever by breathing in contaminated droplets released into the air by infected animals. Drinking raw milk has also caused infection in rare cases. People at highest risk for this infection are:Farmers, Laboratory workers who work with Coxiella burnetii, Sheep and dairy workers, Veterinarians . People at highest risk include those with heart valve problems or weakened immune systems.", "Prevention": "People at risk (for example, farmers and veterinarians) should always:Carefully dispose of animal products that may be infected, Disinfect any contaminated areas, Thoroughly wash their hands . Pasteurizing milk can also help prevent Q fever.Prompt treatment can prevent early Q fever from becoming chronic."}, "Q fever - early": {"description": "Q fever is an infectious disease that is spread by domestic and wild animals and ticks.", "Possible Complications": "Rarely, Q fever causes a heart infection that can lead to severe symptoms or even death if untreated. Other complications can include:Bone infection (osteomyelitis), Brain infection (encephalitis), Liver infection (chronic hepatitis), Lung infection (pneumonia) . ", "Symptoms": ["Dry cough (nonproductive)", "Fever", "Headache", "Joint pain (arthralgia)", "Muscle pains", "Abdominal pain", "Chest pain", "Jaundice", "Rash"], "Exams and Tests": "A physical examination may reveal abnormal sounds (crackles) in the lungs or an enlarged liver and spleen. In the late stages of the disease, a heart murmur may be heard.Tests that may be done include:A chest x-ray to detect pneumonia or other changes, Blood tests to check for antibodies to Coxiella burnetti, Liver function test, Complete blood count (CBC), Tissue staining of infected tissues to identify the bacteria, Electrocardiogram or echocardiogram to look at the heart . ", "Treatment": "Treatment with antibiotics can shorten the length of the illness. Antibiotics that are commonly used include tetracycline and doxycycline. Pregnant women or children who still have any baby teeth should not take tetracycline by mouth because it can permanently discolor growing teeth.", "Causes": "Q fever is caused by the bacteria Coxiella burnetii, which live in domestic animals such as cattle, sheep, goats, birds, and cats. Some wild animals and ticks also carry the bacteria.You can get Q fever by drinking raw (unpasteurized) milk, or after\u00a0breathing in\u00a0dust or droplets in the air that are contaminated with infected animal feces, blood, or birth products.Symptoms usually develop 2 to 3 weeks after coming in contact with the bacteria. This time\u00a0is called the incubation period. Most people have no symptoms. Others may have moderately severe symptoms similar to the flu. If symptoms occur, they may last for several weeks.People at risk for infection include slaughterhouse workers, veterinarians, researchers, food processors, and sheep and cattle workers. Men are infected more often than women. Most people who get Q fever are between 30 and 70 years old.This disease is occasionally seen in children, especially those who live on a farm. In infected children younger than 3 years old, Q fever is usually discovered while looking for the cause of pneumonia.", "Prevention": "Pasteurization of milk destroys the bacteria that cause early Q fever. Domestic animals should be inspected for signs of Q fever if people exposed to them have developed symptoms of the disease."}}