{"Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis": {"description": "Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA) is a term used to describe a common type of arthritis in children. It is a long-term (chronic) disease resulting in joint pain and swelling.", "Possible Complications": "Wearing away or destruction of joints (can occur in patients with more severe JRA), Slow rate of growth, Uneven growth of an arm or leg, Loss of vision or decreased vision from chronic uveitis (this problem may be severe, even when the arthritis is not very severe), Anemia, Swelling around the heart (pericarditis), Chronic pain, poor school attendance. ", "Symptoms": ["Swollen, red, or warm\u00a0joint", "Limping or problems using a limb", "Sudden high fever", "Rash (on trunk and extremities) that comes and goes with fever", "Stiffness, pain, and\u00a0limited movement in a joint", "Bodywide symptoms such as pale skin, swollen lymph gland, and \u201csick\u201d appearance", "Red eyes", "Eye pain, which may get worse when looking at light (photophobia)", "Vision changes"], "Exams and Tests": "The physical exam may show swollen, warm, and tender joints that hurt to move. The child may have a rash. Other signs include:Swollen liver, Swollen spleen, Swollen lymph nodes. Blood tests that may include:Rheumatoid factor, Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), ANA, Complete blood count (CBC), HLA antigens for HLA B27 . Any or all of these blood tests may be normal in children with JRA.The health care provider may place a small needle into a swollen joint to remove fluid. This can help to find the cause of the arthritis. It can also help relieve pain, too. The health care provider\u00a0may inject steroids into the joint to help reduce swelling.Other tests that may be done include:X-ray of a joint, Bone scan, X-ray of the chest, ECG, Regular eye exam by an ophthalmologist. This should be done even if there are no eye symptoms.. ", "Treatment": "Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen or naproxen may be enough to control symptoms when only a small number of joints are involved.Corticosteroids may be used for more severe flare-ups to help control symptoms.Children who have arthritis in many joints, or who have fever, rash, and swollen glands may need other medicines. These are called disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). They can help reduce swelling in the joints or body. DMARDs include:Methotrexate, Biologic drugs, such as such as etanercept, infliximab, and related drugs . Children with JRA need to stay active.Exercise will help keep their muscles and joints strong and mobile.Walking, bicycling, and swimming may be good activities., Children should learn to warm up before exercising., Talk to the doctor or physical therapist about exercises to do when your child is having pain. . Children who have sadness or anger about their arthritis may need extra support.Some children with JRA may need surgery, including joint replacement.", "Causes": "The cause of JRA is not known. It is thought to be an autoimmune illness. This means the body attacks and destroys healthy body tissue by mistake.JRA\u00a0most often develops\u00a0before age 16. Symptoms may start as early as 6 months old.There are several types of JRA:Systemic (bodywide) JRA involves joint swelling or pain, fevers, and rash. It is the least common type., Polyarticular JRA involves many joints. This form of JRA may turn into rheumatoid arthritis. It may involve five or more large and small joints of the legs and arms, as well as the jaw and neck., Pauciarticular JRA involves four or less joints, most often the wrists, or knees. It also affects the eyes.. ", "Prevention": "There is no known prevention for JRA."}, "Jock itch": {"Symptoms": ["Red, raised, scaly patches that may blister and ooze; patches often have sharply-defined edges.\u00a0", "Patches are\u00a0often redder around the outside with normal skin tone in the center.", "Abnormally dark or light skin. Sometimes, these changes are permanent."], "Exams and Tests": "Your health care provider can usually diagnose jock itch based on how your skin looks.Tests are usually not necessary. If tests are needed, they may include:A simple office test called a\u00a0KOH exam, Skin culture. ", "description": "Jock itch is an infection of the groin area caused by fungus. The medical term is tinea cruris, or ringworm of the groin.", "Causes": "Jock itch occurs when a type of fungus grows and spreads in the groin area.Jock itch occurs mostly in adult men and\u00a0teenage boys.\u00a0Some persons who have this infection also have athlete's foot and ringworm.The fungus that causes jock itch thrives in warm, moist areas.Jock itch can be triggered by friction from clothes and prolonged wetness in the groin area, such as from sweating.Jock itch can be passed from one person to the next by direct skin-to-skin contact or contact with unwashed clothing.", "Treatment": "Jock itch usually responds to self-care within a couple of weeks:Keep the skin clean and dry in the groin area., Do not wear clothing that rubs and irritates the area. Wear loose-fitting underwear., Wash athletic supporters frequently., Over-the-counter antifungal or drying powders can help control the infection. These contain medicine, such as miconazole, clotrimazole, terbinafine or tolnaftate.. You may need treatment by a health care provider if your infection lasts longer than 2 weeks, is severe, or frequently returns.\u00a0 The health care provider may prescribe:Stronger topical (applied to the skin) antifungal medicines or oral antifungal\u00a0medicines, Antibiotics may to treat bacterial infections that occur from scratching the area. If you tend to get jock itch, continue to apply antifungal or drying powders after bathing, even when you do not have jock itch. "}, "Jaw - broken or dislocated": {"Symptoms": ["Bleeding from the mouth", "Difficulty opening the mouth widely", "Facial bruising", " \r\n Facial swelling \r\n ", "Jaw stiffness", "Jaw tenderness or pain, worse with biting or chewing", "Loose or damaged teeth", "Lump or abnormal appearance of the cheek or jaw", " \r\n Numbness of the face (particularly the lower lip)", "Very limited movement of the jaw (with severe fracture)", "Bite that feels \"off\" or crooked", "Difficulty speaking", "Drooling because of inability to close the mouth", "Inability to close the mouth", "Jaw that may protrude forward", "Pain in the face or jaw, located in front of the ear or on the affected side, and\u00a0gets worse with movement", "Teeth that do not line up properly"], "Causes": "The most common cause of a broken or dislocated jaw is injury to the face. This may be due to:Assault, Industrial accident, Motor vehicle accident, Recreational or sports injury. ", "description": "A broken jaw is a break (fracture) in the jaw bone. A dislocated jaw means the lower part of the jaw has moved out of its normal position at one or both joints where the jaw bone connects to the skull (temporomandibular joints).", "Prevention": "Safe practices in work, sports, and recreation, such as wearing a proper helmet when playing football,\u00a0or using mouth guards, can\u00a0prevent some accidental injuries to the face or jaw."}, "Jellyfish stings": {"Symptoms": ["Abdominal pain", "Changes in pulse", "Chest pain", "Collapse", "Headache", "Muscle pain and muscle spasms", "Numbness and weakness", "Pain in the arms or legs", "Raised red spot where stung", "Runny nose and watery eyes", "Swallowing difficulty", "Sweating", "Breathing difficulty", "Nausea and vomiting", "Severe pain and swelling", "Slow heart beat", "Skin tissue death", "Breathing difficulty", "Muscle cramps", "Skin burning and blistering (severe)", "Mild skin rash (with mild stings)", "Muscle cramps and breathing difficulty (with extensive contact)"], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222.", "Prevention": "Do not swim in waters known to harbor jellyfish. Ask local inhabitants if it is safe to swim in waters with which you are not familiar."}, "Jerusalem cherry poisoning": {"Symptoms": ["Coma", "Delirium", "Diarrhea", "Drowsiness", "Enlarged (dilated) pupils", "Hallucinations", "Headache", "Low blood pressure", "Slowed breathing", "Slow pulse", "Stomach pain", "Vomiting"], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222.", "Prevention": "Do not touch or eat any plant with which you are not familiar. Wash your hands after working in the garden or walking in the woods."}, "Jack-in-the-pulpit poisoning": {"Symptoms": ["Burning in mouth and throat", "Diarrhea", "Nausea and vomiting", "Slurred speech", "Swelling of mouth and tongue", "Teary eyes"], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222.", "Prevention": "Do not touch or eat any plant with which you are not familiar. Wash your hands after working in the garden or walking in the woods."}, "Juvenile angiofibroma": {"description": "Juvenile angiofibroma is a noncancerous growth, which presents with nosebleeds in the nose and sinus,\u00a0that is usually seen in boys and young adults.\u00a0", "Possible Complications": "Anemia, Pressure on the brain (rare), Spread of the tumor to the nose, sinuses, and other structures. ", "Symptoms": ["Difficulty breathing through the nose", "Easy bruising", "Frequent or repeated nosebleeds", "Hearing loss", "Nasal discharge, usually bloody", "Prolonged bleeding", "Stuffy nose"], "Exams and Tests": "The doctor may see the angiofibroma when examining the upper throat.Tests that may be done include:Arteriogram to see the blood supply to the growth, CT scan of the head, MRI scan of the head, X-ray. Biopsy is generally not recommended due to the high risk of bleeding.", "Treatment": "You will need treatment if the angiofibroma is growing larger, blocking the airways, or causing repeated nosebleeds. In some cases, no treatment is needed.Surgery may be needed to remove the tumor. The tumor may be hard to remove if it is not enclosed and has spread to other areas. Newer surgery techniques that place a camera up through the nose have made tumor removal surgery less invasive.A procedure called embolization may be done to prevent the tumor from bleeding. The procedure may correct the nosebleeds by itself, but it is usually followed by surgery to remove the tumor.", "Causes": "Juvenile angiofibroma is not very common. It is usually found in adolescent boys. The tumor contains many blood vessels, spreads within the area in which it started (locally invasive), and can cause bone damage.", "Prevention": "There is no known way to prevent this condition."}, "Jewelry cleaners": {"Symptoms": ["Breathing difficulty (from breathing in chemicals)", "Throat swelling (may also cause breathing difficulty)", "Severe pain in the throat", "Severe pain or burning in the nose, eyes, ears, lips, or tongue", "Vision loss", "Abdominal pain - severe", "Bloody stools", "Burns and possible holes of the esophagus (food pipe)", "Vomiting, possibly with blood", "Collapse", "Low blood pressure -- develops rapidly", "Severe change in blood acid level -- leads to organ damage", "Burns", "Holes in the skin or underlying tissues", "Irritation"], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222."}, "Jimsonweed poisoning": {"Symptoms": ["Little to no urine production (urine retention)", "Blurred vision", "Dilated pupils", "Dry mouth", "Nausea", "Vomiting", "Elevated blood pressure", "Rapid pulse", "Coma", "Convulsions", "Death", "Delirium", "Dizziness", "Hallucinations", "Headache", "Red skin", "Fever", "Thirst"], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222.", "Prevention": "Do not touch or eat any plant with which you are not familiar. Wash your hands after working in the garden or walking in the woods."}, "Jaundice": {"Symptoms": ["Yellow skin and the white part of the eyes (sclera) -- when jaundice is more severe, these areas may look brown", "Yellow color inside the mouth", "Dark or brown-colored urine", "Pale or clay-colored stools ", "Cancers may produce no symptoms, or there may be fatigue, weight loss, or other symptoms", "Hepatitis may produce nausea, vomiting, fatigue, or other symptoms"], "Exams and Tests": "The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may show liver swelling.A bilirubin blood test will be done. Other tests may include:Hepatitis virus panel to look for infection of the liver, Liver function tests to determine how well the liver is working, Complete blood count to check for low blood count or anemia, Abdominal ultrasound, Abdominal CT scan, Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), Percutaneous transhepatic cholangiogram (PTCA), Liver biopsy, Cholesterol level, Prothrombin time. ", "description": "Jaundice is a yellow color of the skin, mucus membranes, or eyes. The yellow coloring comes from bilirubin, a byproduct of old red blood cells. Jaundice can be a symptom of other health problems.", "Causes": "A small number of red blood cells in your body die each day, and are replaced by new ones. The liver removes the old blood cells. This creates bilirubin. The liver helps break down bilirubin so that it can be removed by the body in the stool.Jaundice can occur when too much bilirubin builds up in the body.Jaundice can occur if:Too many red blood cells are dying or breaking down and going to the liver, The liver is overloaded or damaged, The bilirubin from the liver is unable to move into\u00a0the digestive tract properly . Jaundice is often a sign of a problem with the liver, gallbladder, or pancreas. Things that can cause jaundice include:Infections, Use of certain drugs, Cancer, Blood disorders, gallstones, birth defects and a number of other medical conditions can lead to jaundice. For more information on the causes of jaundice see: Jaundice causes. ", "Treatment": "Treatment depends on the cause of the jaundice."}}