{"Von Gierke disease": {"description": "Von Gierke disease is also called Type I glycogen storage disease (GSD I).", "Possible Complications": "Frequent infection, Gout, Kidney failure, Liver tumors, Osteoporosis, Seizures, lethargy, confusion due to low blood sugar, Short height, Underdeveloped secondary sexual characteristics (breasts, pubic hair), Ulcers of the mouth or bowel. ", "Symptoms": ["Constant hunger and need to eat often", "Easy bruising and nosebleeds", "Fatigue", "Irritability", "Puffy cheeks, thin chest and limbs, and swollen belly"], "Exams and Tests": "The health care provider will perform a physical exam.There may be signs of:Delayed puberty , Enlarged liver, Gout, Inflammatory bowel disease, Liver tumors, Severe low blood sugar (hypoglycemia), Stunted growth or failure to grow. Children with this condition are usually diagnosed before age 1.Tests that may be done include:Biopsy of liver or kidney, Blood sugar test, Genetic testing, Lactic acid blood test, Triglyceride level, Uric acid blood test. Testing reveals low blood sugar and high levels of lactate, lipids, and uric acid.", "Treatment": "The goal of treatment is to avoid low blood sugar. Eat frequently during the day, especially foods that contain carbohydrates (starches). Older children and adults may take cornstarch by mouth.In some children, a feeding tube is placed through the nose into the stomach to provide sugars or uncooked cornstarch throughout the night. The tube can be put in at bedtime and taken out each morning.A medication called allopurinol can lower blood uric acid and decrease the risk for gout. Other medications may include those for kidney disease, high lipids, and to increase the cells that fight infection.Persons with von Gierke disease cannot properly break down fruit or milk sugar. It is best to avoid these products.", "Causes": "Von Gierke disease occurs when the body lacks the protein (enzyme) that releases glucose from glycogen. This causes abnormal amounts of glycogen to build up in certain tissues. When glycogen is not broken down properly, it leads to low blood sugar.Von Gierke disease is inherited, which means it is passed down through families. If both parents carry the defective gene related to this condition, each of their children has a 25% chance of developing the disease.", "Prevention": "There is no simple way to prevent glycogen storage disease.Couples who wish to have a baby may seek genetic counseling and testing to determine their risk for passing on von Gierke disease."}, "Ventricular tachycardia": {"description": "Ventricular tachycardia (VT) is a rapid heartbeat that starts in the lower chambers of the heart (ventricles).", "Possible Complications": "Ventricular tachycardia may not cause symptoms in some people. However, it can be deadly. It is a major cause of sudden cardiac death.", "Symptoms": ["Chest discomfort (angina)", "Fainting (syncope)", "Light-headedness or dizziness", "Sensation of feeling the heart beat (palpitations)", "Shortness of breath"], "Exams and Tests": "The health care provider will look for:Absent pulse, Loss of consciousness, Normal or low blood pressure, Rapid pulse. Tests that may be used to detect ventricular tachycardia include:Continuous ambulatory electrocardiogram (Holter monitor), ECG, Intracardiac electrophysiology study (EPS), Rhythm monitoring with a loop recorder or device . You may also have blood chemistries and other tests. ", "Treatment": "Treatment depends on the symptoms, and the type of heart disorder. Some people may not need treatment.If ventricular tachycardia becomes an emergency situation, it may require:CPR, Electrical defibrillation or cardioversion (electric shock), Anti-arrhythmic medications (such as lidocaine, procainamide, sotalol, or amiodarone) given through a vein . Oral anti-arrhythmic medications (such as procainamide, amiodarone, or sotalol) may be needed for long-term treatment of ventricular tachycardia. However, these drugs may have severe side effects. They are being used less often as other treatments are developed. Some ventricular tachycardias may be treated with a procedure to destroy the tissue that is causing the irregular heartbeat (ablation). Radiofrequency catheter ablation can cure certain tachycardias.A treatment that is often used for chronic (long-term) ventricular tachycardias consists of implanting a device called an\u00a0implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD). The ICD is most often implanted in the chest, like a pacemaker. It is connected to the heart with wires.The ICD is programmed to detect when an abnormal heartbeat is occurring. It then sends out an electric shock to stop it. The ICD may also be programmed to send a series of rapid beats to interrupt the ventricular tachycardia. You may need to take anti-arrhythmic drugs to prevent the ICD from repeatedly firing.", "Causes": "Ventricular tachycardia is a pulse rate of more than 100 beats per minute, with at least three irregular heartbeats in a row.The condition can develop as an early or late complication of a heart attack. It may also occur in people with:Cardiomyopathy, Heart failure, Heart surgery, Myocarditis, Valvular heart disease. Ventricular tachycardia can occur without heart disease.Scar tissue may form in the muscle of the ventricles days, months, or years after a heart attack. This can lead to ventricular tachycardia.Ventricular tachycardia can also be caused by:Anti-arrhythmic drugs (used to treat an abnormal heart rhythm), Changes in blood chemistry (such as a low potassium level), Changes in pH (acid-base), Lack of enough oxygen. \"Torsade de pointes\" is a form of ventricular tachycardia. It is often due to congenital heart disease or the use of certain medicines.", "Prevention": "The disorder cannot be prevented in some cases. In other cases, it can be prevented by treating heart problems and avoiding certain medicines."}, "Varnish poisoning": {"Symptoms": ["Loss of vision", "Severe pain in the throat", "Severe pain or burning in the nose, eyes, ears, lips, or tongue ", "Blood in the stool", "Burns of the food pipe (esophagus)", "Severe abdominal pain", "Vomiting", "Vomiting blood", "Blood in urine", "Kidney failure", "Breathing difficulty", "Throat swelling (which may also cause breathing difficulty) ", "Collapse", "Low blood pressure that develops rapidly ", "Coma (decreased level of consciousness and lack of responsiveness)", "Dizziness", "Impaired memory", "Insomnia", "Irritability", "Loss of coordination", "Sensation of being drunk", "Severe brain damage", "Sleepiness", "Stupor", "Walking difficulties ", "Burns", "Irritation "], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222."}, "Vaginal bleeding - hormonal": {"description": "DUB is unpredictable. The bleeding may be very heavy or light and can occur often or randomly.", "Possible Complications": "Complications that may occur:Infertility (inability to get pregnant), Severe anemia due to a lot of blood loss over time, Increased risk for endometrial cancer. ", "Symptoms": ["Bleeding or spotting from the vagina between periods", "Periods that occur less than 28 days apart (more common) or more than 35 days apart", "Time between periods changes each month", "Heavier bleeding (such as passing large clots, needing to change protection during the night, soaking through a sanitary pad or tampon every hour for 2 to 3 hours in a row)", "Bleeding that lasts for more days than normal or for more than 7 days ", "Excessive growth of body hair in a male pattern (hirsutism)", "Hot flashes", "Mood swings", "Tenderness and dryness of the vagina "], "Exams and Tests": "Your health care provider will do a pelvic exam and may do a Pap test. Other tests that may be done include:Complete blood count (CBC), Blood clotting profile, Hormone tests, for FSH, LH, male hormone (androgen) levels, prolactin, and progesterone, Pregnancy test, Thyroid function tests, Pap smear . Your provider may recommend the following:Culture to look for infectionBiopsy to check for precancer, cancer, or to help decide on hormone treatment, Hysteroscopy, performed in the doctor's office, to look into the uterus through the vagina., Ultrasound to look for problems in the uterus or pelvis . ", "Treatment": "Young women up to age 18 may be treated with low-dose combination birth control pills.In other women, treatment may include one or more of the following:Low-dose birth control pills, High-dose estrogen therapy for women with very heavy bleeding, Intrauterine device (IUD) that releases the hormone progestin, Ibuprofen or naproxen taken just before the period starts . Women over age 40 and older may have the option to receive cyclic progestin or cyclic hormone therapy.A health care provider may recommend iron supplements for women with anemia.If you want to get pregnant, you may be given medication to stimulate ovulation.Women with severe symptoms that do not get better with other treatments may consider the following procedures if they no longer want to have children:Surgical procedure to destroy or remove the lining of the uterus, Hysterectomy to remove the uterus . ", "Causes": "Every woman's menstrual cycle, or period, is different. On average, a woman's period occurs every 28 days., Most women have cycles between 24 and 34 days apart. It usually lasts 4 to 7 days., Young girls may get their periods anywhere from 21 to 45 days or more apart., Women in their 40s will often notice their period occurring less often. . About every month, the levels of female hormones in a woman's body rise and fall. Estrogen and progesterone are two hormones that play an important role in ovulation. This is the time when the ovaries release an egg.Dysfunctional uterine bleeding most commonly occurs when the ovaries do not release an egg. Changes in hormone levels cause your period to be later or earlier and sometimes heavier than normal."}, "Vulvovaginitis - overview": {"description": "Vaginitis is a common problem that can affect women and girls of all ages. It can be caused by:", "Symptoms": ["Irritation and itching of the genital area", "Inflammation (irritation, redness, and swelling) of the genital area", "Vaginal discharge", "Foul vaginal odor", "Discomfort or burning when urinating "], "Exams and Tests": "If you have been diagnosed with a yeast infection in the past and know the symptoms, you can try treatment with over-the-counter products. However, if your symptoms do not completely disappear in about a week, contact your health care provider. Many other infections have similar symptoms.The health care provider will perform a pelvic examination. This exam may show red, tender areas on the vulva or vagina.A wet prep (examining vaginal discharge under a microscope) is usually done to identify a vaginal infection or overgrowth of yeast or bacteria. In some cases, a culture of the vaginal discharge may identify the germ that is causing the infection.A biopsy (a test of the tissue) of the irritated area on the vulva may be recommended if there are no signs of infection.", "Causes": "INFECTIONSYeast infections are one of the most common causes of vulvovaginitis in women. Yeast infections are most often due to the fungus Candida albicans., Candida and the many other germs that normally live in the vagina keep each other in balance. However, sometimes the number of Candida increases, leading to a yeast infection., Yeast infections typically cause genital itching, a thick white vaginal discharge, and other symptoms. . The vagina normally contains both healthy bacteria and unhealthy bacteria. Bacterial vaginosis (BV) occurs when more unhealthy bacteria than healthy bacteria grow. BV may cause a thin, grey vaginal discharge and a fishy odor.A less common type of vaginitis is spread by sexual contact. It is called trichomonias. Symptoms in women include genital itching, vaginal odor, and a heavy vaginal discharge that may be yellow-grey or green in color.OTHER CAUSESChemicals can cause itchy rashes in the genital area.Spermicides and vaginal sponges, which are over-the-counter birth control methods, Feminine sprays and perfumes, Bubble baths and soaps . Low estrogen levels in women after menopause can cause vaginal dryness and thinning of the skin of the vagina and vulva. These factors may lead to or worsen genital itching and burning.Other causes include:Tight-fitting or nonabsorbent clothing, which leads to heat rashes, Skin conditions, Objects such as a lost tampon can also cause irritation, itching, and strong smelling discharge.. Sometimes the exact cause cannot be found. This is called nonspecific vulvovaginitis. It occurs in all age groups, but is most common in young girls before puberty, especially girls with poor genital hygiene., It causes a foul-smelling, brownish-green discharge and irritation of the labia and vaginal opening. , This condition is often linked with excess growth of bacteria that are typically found in the stool. These bacteria are sometimes spread from the rectum to the vaginal area by wiping from back to front after using the bathroom.. Irritated tissue is more likely to become infected than healthy tissue. Many germs that cause infection thrive in a warm, damp, and dark environment, which can also lead to a longer recovery.Sexual abuse should be considered in young girls with unusual infections and repeated episodes of unexplained vulvovaginitis. ", "Prevention": "Keep your genital area clean and dry when you have vaginitis.Avoid soap. Just rinse with water to clean yourself., Soak in a warm, not hot, bath to help your symptoms. Dry thoroughly afterward.. Avoid douching. Many women feel cleaner when they douche, but it may actually make symptoms worse because it removes healthy bacteria that line the vagina. These bacteria help protect against infection.Other tips are: Avoid using hygiene sprays, fragrances, or powders in the genital area., Use pads instead of tampons while you have an infection., If you have diabetes, keep your blood sugar levels in good control.. Allow more air to reach your genital area. You can do this by:Wearing loose-fitting clothes and not wearing panty hose, Wearing cotton underwear (instead of synthetic fabrics) or underwear that has a cotton lining in the crotch. Cotton increases air flow and decreases moisture buildup., Not wearing underwear at night when you sleep. Girls and women should also:Know how to properly clean their genital area while bathing or showering., Wipe properly after using the toilet -- always from front to back., Wash thoroughly before and after using the bathroom.. Always practice safe sex, and use condoms to avoid catching or spreading infections.", "Treatment": "Creams or suppositories are used to treat yeast infections in the vagina. You can buy most of them without a prescription at drugstores, some grocery stores, and other stores. Follow the directions that came with the medicine you are using.There are many treatments for vaginal dryness. Before treating your symptoms on your own, see a doctor who can find the cause of the problem.If you have BV or trichomoniasis, your health care provider may prescribe:Antibiotic pills that you swallow, Antibiotic creams that you insert into your vagina . Other medicines that may help include:Cortisone cream, Antihistamine pills to help with itching . Be sure to use the medicine exactly as prescribed and follow the instructions on the label."}, "Vaginal dryness": {"description": "Vaginal dryness is present when the tissues of the vagina are no longer well-lubricated and healthy. When these symptoms are caused by a decreased amount of estrogen in a woman\u2019s body, this problem is called atrophic vaginitis. ", "Possible Complications": "Vaginal dryness can:Make you more likely to get yeast or bacterial infections of the vagina, Cause sores or cracks in the walls of the vagina, Cause pain with sexual intercourse, which\u00a0may affect your relationship with your partner or spouse. Talking openly with your partner may help. . ", "Symptoms": ["Burning on urination", "Light bleeding after intercourse", "Painful sexual intercourse", "Slight vaginal discharge", "Vaginal soreness, itching or burning "], "Exams and Tests": "A pelvic exam shows that the walls of the vagina are thin, pale or red. Your vaginal discharge may be tested to rule out other causes for the condition. You may also have hormone level tests to find out if you are in menopause.", "Treatment": "There are many treatments for vaginal dryness. Before treating your symptoms on your own, a doctor\u00a0must determine the cause of the problem.You can buy some lubricants and vaginal moisturizing creams without prescription. They will often moisten the area for several hours up to a day., Using a water-soluble vaginal lubricant during intercourse may help. Products with petroleum jelly, mineral oil, or other oils may damage latex condoms or diaphragms., Avoid scented soaps, lotions, perfumes, or douches.. Prescription estrogen can work well to treat atrophic vaginitis. It is available as a cream, tablet, suppository, or ring. All of these are placed directly into the vagina. These medicines deliver estrogen directly to the vaginal area. Only a little estrogen is absorbed into the bloodstream.You may take estrogen (hormone therapy)in the form of a skin patch, or in a pill that you take by mouth if you have hot flashes or other symptoms of menopause. See: Hormone replacement therapyWomen should discuss the risks and benefits of estrogen replacement therapy with their health care provider.", "Causes": "Atrophic vaginitis is caused by a decrease in estrogen. Estrogen keeps the tissues of the vagina lubricated and healthy. Normally, the lining of the vagina makes a clear, lubricating fluid. This fluid makes sexual intercourse more comfortable. It also helps decrease vaginal dryness.If estrogen levels drop off, the vaginal tissue shrinks and becomes thinner. This causes dryness and inflammation.Estrogen levels normally drop after menopause. The following may also cause estrogen levels to drop:Medicines or hormones used in the treatment of breast cancer, endometriosis, fibroids, or infertility., Surgery to remove the ovaries, Radiation treatment to the pelvic area , Chemotherapy., Severe stress, depression, or intense exercise.. Some women develop this problem right after childbirth or while breastfeeding. Estrogen levels are lower at these times.The vagina can also become further irritated from soaps, laundry detergents, lotions, perfumes, or douches. Certain medicines, smoking, tampons, and condoms may also cause or worsen vaginal dryness. "}, "Valley fever": {"description": "Valley fever is an infection that occurs when the spores of the fungus Coccidioides immitis enter your body through the lungs.", "Possible Complications": "Widespread coccidioidomycosis may cause:Collections of pus in the lung, Lung abscesses, Scarring of the lung. These problems are much more likely if you have a weakened immune system.A chronic form of this infection can develop 20 or more years after the\u00a0first infection. Lung abscesses can form and rupture, releasing pus (empyema) between the lungs and ribs (pleural space).", "Symptoms": ["Ankle, feet, and leg swelling", "Chest pain (can vary from mild to severe)", "Cough, possibly producing blood-tinged phlegm (sputum)", "Fever and night sweats", "Headache", "Joint stiffness and pain or muscle aches", "Loss of appetite", "Painful, red lumps on lower legs (erythema nodosum) ", "Change in mental status", "Enlarged or draining lymph nodes", "Joint swelling", "More severe lung symptoms", "Neck stiffness", "Sensitivity to light", "Weight loss "], "Exams and Tests": "Tests done for milder forms of this disease include:Blood test to check for coccidioides infection (the fungus that causes Valley fever), Chest x-ray, Sputum culture, Sputum smear (KOH test). Tests done for more severe or widespread forms of the infection include:Biopsy of the lymph node, lung, or liver, Bone marrow biopsy, Bronchoscopy with lavage, Spinal tap (lumbar puncture) to rule out meningitis. ", "Treatment": "The disease almost always goes away without treatment. Your health care provider may recommend bedrest and treatment for flu-like symptoms until your fever disappears.If you have a weakened immune system, you may need antifungal treatment with amphotericin B, fluconazole, or itraconazole. The best length of treatment with these medications has not been determined.Sometimes surgery is needed to remove the infected part of the lung (for chronic or severe disease).", "Causes": "Valley fever is a fungal infection most commonly seen in the desert regions of the southwestern United States, and in Central and South America. You get it by breathing in the fungus from soil. The infection starts in the lungs.Valley fever may also be called coccidioidomycosis.Traveling to an area where the fungus is commonly seen raises your risk for this infection. You are also more likely to develop a serious infection if you have a weakened immune system due to:Anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) therapy, Cancer, Chemotherapy, Glucocorticoid medications (prednisone), Heart-lung conditions, HIV, Organ transplant, Pregnancy (especially the first trimester). People of Native American, African, or Philippine descent may also get more severe cases.", "Prevention": "Taking care of your health will help keep the disease in the benign pulmonary form. Preventing AIDS or other causes of immune system damage will usually prevent the more severe forms of the disease.People with immune problems (such as AIDS patients and those who are on drugs that suppress the immune system) should avoid travel to areas where this fungus is found, if they want to reduce their risk of getting this rare, chronic disorder."}, "Varicocele": {"description": "A varicocele is the swelling of the veins inside the scrotum. These veins are found along the cord that holds up a man's testicles (spermatic cord).", "Possible Complications": "Infertility is a complication of varicocele.Complications from treatment may include:Atrophic testis, Blood clot formation, Infection, Injury to the scrotum or nearby blood vessel. ", "Symptoms": ["Enlarged, twisted veins in the scrotum", "Painless testicle lump, scrotal swelling, or bulge in the scrotum", "You may not have any symptoms"], "Exams and Tests": "You will have an exam of your groin area, including the scrotum and testicles. The health care provider may feel a twisted growth along the spermatic cord.Sometimes the growth may not be able to be seen or felt, especially when you are lying down.The testicle on the side of the varicocele may be smaller than the one on the other side.", "Treatment": "A jock strap or snug underwear may help ease discomfort. You may need other treatment if the pain does not go away or you develop other symptoms. Surgery to correct a varicocele is called varicocelectomy. For this procedure:You will receive some type of numbing medication (anesthesia). , The urologist will make a cut, usually in the lower abdomen, and tie off the abnormal veins. This directs blood flow in the area to the normal veins., You will be able to leave the hospital same day as your surgery, You will need to keep an ice pack on the area for the first 24 hours after surgery to reduce swelling.. An alternative to surgery is varicocele embolization. For this procedure:A small hollow tube called a catheter (tube) is placed into a vein in your groin or neck area., The health care provider moves the tube into the varicocele using x-rays as a guide. , A tiny coil passes through the tube into the varicocele. The coil blocks blood flow to the bad vein and sends it to normal veins., You will need to keep an ice pack on the area to reduce swelling and wear a scrotal support for a little while.. This method is also done without an overnight hospital stay. It uses a much smaller cut than surgery, so you will heal faster. ", "Causes": "A varicocele forms when valves inside the veins that run along the spermatic cord prevent blood from flowing properly. Blood to backups leading to swelling and widening of the veins. (This is similar to varicose veins in the legs.) Varicoceles develop slowly most of the time. They are more common in men ages 15 - 25 and are most often seen on the left side of the scrotum.A varicocele in an older man that appears suddenly may be caused by a kidney tumor, which can block blood flow to a vein. The problem is more common on the left side than the right."}, "Viral pneumonia": {"description": "Viral pneumonia is inflammation (irritation and swelling) of the lungs due to infection with a virus.", "Possible Complications": "More serious infections can result in respiratory failure, liver failure, and heart failure. Sometimes, bacterial infections occur during or just after viral pneumonia, which may lead to more serious forms of pneumonia.", "Symptoms": ["Cough (with some pneumonias you may cough up mucus, or even bloody mucus)", "Fever, which may be mild or high", "Shaking chills", "Shortness of breath (may only occur when you exert yourself)", "Confusion, especially in older people", "Excessive sweating and clammy skin", "Headache", "Loss of appetite, low energy, and fatigue", "Sharp or stabbing chest pain that gets worse when you breathe deeply or cough", "Fatigue "], "Exams and Tests": "The doctor will perform a physical exam.If the doctor thinks you have pneumonia, you will also have a\u00a0chest x-ray. This is because\u00a0the physical exam may not be able to tell\u00a0pneumonia from acute bronchitis or other respiratory infections.Depending on how severe your symptoms are, other tests may be done, including:Complete blood count (CBC), CT scan of the chest, Blood cultures, Bronchoscopy (rarely needed), Nasal swab test to check for viruses such as the flu, Open lung biopsy (only done in very serious illnesses when the diagnosis cannot be made from other sources), Sputum culture. ", "Treatment": "Antibiotics do not treat viral pneumonia. Antiviral medication only works against influenza pneumonia and some\u00a0pneumonias caused\u00a0by the herpes family of viruses.\u00a0Antiviral drugs may be tried, especially if the infection is caught early.Treatment may also involve:Corticosteroid medicines, Increased fluids, Oxygen, Use of humidified air. A hospital stay may be\u00a0needed to prevent dehydration and to help with breathing if the infection is serious.People are more likely to be admitted to the hospital if they:Are older than 65 years or are children, Are unable to care for themselves at home, eat, or drink, Have another serious medical problem, such as a heart or kidney problem, Have been taking antibiotics at home and are not getting better, Have severe symptoms. However, many people can be treated at home. You can take these steps at home:Control your fever with aspirin, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs, such as ibuprofen or naproxen), or acetaminophen. Do not give aspirin to children., Do not take cough medicines without first talking to your doctor. Cough medicines may make it harder for your body to cough up sputum., Drink plenty of fluids to help loosen secretions and bring up phlegm., Get a lot of rest. Have someone else do chores.. ", "Causes": "Viral pneumonia is more likely to occur in young children and older adults. This is because their bodies have a harder time fighting off the virus than people with a strong immune system.Viral pneumonia is most often caused by one of several viruses:Adenovirus, Influenza, Parainfluenza, Respiratory syncytial virus. Serious viral pneumonia is more likely to happen in those with a weakened immune system, such as:Babies who are born too early, Children with heart and lung problems, People who are infected with HIV, People receiving chemotherapy for cancer, or other medications that weaken the immune system, People who have had an organ transplant. ", "Prevention": "Wash your hands often, especially after blowing your nose, going to the bathroom, diapering a baby, and before eating or preparing food.Do not\u00a0smoke. Tobacco damages your lungs' ability to ward off infection.Vaccines may help prevent pneumonia in children, the elderly, and people with diabetes, asthma, emphysema, HIV, cancer, or other chronic conditions.A drug called palivizumab (Synagis) is given to some children under 24 months old to prevent pneumonia caused by respiratory syncytial virus., Flu vaccine prevents pneumonia and other problems caused by the influenza virus. It must be given each year to protect against new virus strains.. If your immune system is weak, stay away from crowds. Ask visitors who have a cold to wear a mask."}, "Volvulus - childhood": {"description": "A volvulus is a twisting of the intestine that can occur in childhood. It causes a blockage that may cut off blood flow. Part of the intestine may be damaged as a result.", "Possible Complications": "Secondary peritonitis, Short bowel syndrome (after removal of a large part of the small bowel). ", "Symptoms": ["Bloody or dark red stools", "Constipation or difficulty releasing stools", "Distended abdomen", "Pain or tenderness in the abdomen", "Nausea or vomiting", "Shock", "Vomiting green material "], "Exams and Tests": "Barium enema, Blood tests to check electrolytes, CT scan, Stool guaiac (shows blood in the stool), Upper GI. ", "Treatment": "In some cases, colonoscopy can be used to correct the problem. A colonoscopy uses a flexible tube with a light on the end that is passed into the colon (large bowel) through the rectum.Emergency surgery is often needed to repair the volvulus. A surgical cut is made in the abdomen. The bowels are untwisted and the blood supply is restored.If a small segment of bowel is dead from a lack of blood flow (necrotic), it is removed. The ends of the bowel are then sewn together. Or, they are used to form a connection of the intestines to the outside of the body (colostomy or ileostomy). Bowel contents can be removed through this opening. ", "Causes": "A birth defect called intestinal malrotation can make an infant more likely to develop a volvulus. However, a volvulus can occur without this condition present. Volvulus due to malrotation occurs most often in the first year of life."}, "Visceral larva migrans": {"description": "Visceral larva migrans is a human infection with certain parasites found in the intestines of dogs and cats.", "Possible Complications": "These complications may occur from the infection:Blindness, Worsened eyesight, Encephalitis (infection of the brain), Heart rhythm problems, Difficulty breathing . ", "Symptoms": ["Abdominal pain", "Cough", "Fever", "Irritability \r\n", "Itchy skin (hives)", "Shortness of breath", "Wheezing"], "Exams and Tests": "If you have visceral larva migrans, you may have a high level of white blood cells.People with this condition may also have signs of a:Swollen liver, Rash, Lung or eye problem . Tests may include:Complete blood count with differential, Blood tests to detect antibodies to Toxocara. ", "Treatment": "This infection usually goes away on its own and may not require treatment. Some people need to take anti-parasitic drugs.", "Causes": "Visceral larva migrans (VLM) is caused by roundworms (parasites) that are found in the intestines of dogs and cats. Eggs produced by these worms are in the feces of the infected animals. The feces mix with soil. Humans can get sick if they accidentally eat soil that has the eggs in it. This can happen by eating fruit or vegetables that were in contact with infected soil and were not washed thoroughly before eating. People can also become infected by eating raw liver from a chicken, lamb, or cow.Young children with pica are at high risk of getting VLM. Pica is a disorder involving eating inedible things such as dirt and paint. Most infections in the United States occur in children who play in areas, such as sandboxes, which contain soil contaminated by dog or cat feces.After the worm eggs are swallowed, they break open in the intestine. The worms travel throughout the body to various organs, such as the lungs, liver, and eyes. They may also travel to the brain and heart.", "Prevention": "Prevention includes deworming dogs and cats and preventing them from defecating in public areas. Children should be kept away from areas where dogs and cats may defecate. It is very important to wash your hands thoroughly after touching soil or after touching cats or dogs. Teach your children to wash their hands thoroughly after being outdoors or after touching cats or dogs.DO NOT eat raw liver from a chicken, lamb, or cow."}, "Vaginal tumors": {"description": "A vaginal tumor is an abnormal growth of tissue in the vagina, a female reproductive organ.", "Possible Complications": "Vaginal cancer may spread to other areas of the body. Complications can occur from radiation, surgery, and chemotherapy.", "Symptoms": ["Bleeding after sexual intercourse", "Painless vaginal bleeding and discharge not due to normal period", "Pain in the pelvis or vagina"], "Exams and Tests": "In patients with no symptoms, the cancer may be found during a routine pelvic exam and Pap smear.Other tests to diagnose vaginal tumors include:Biopsy, Colposcopy. Other tests that may be done include:Chest x-ray, CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis . ", "Treatment": "Treatment of vaginal cancer depends on the type of cancer and how far the disease has spread.Surgery is sometimes used to remove the cancer. But most patients are treated with radiation. If the tumor is cervical cancer that has spread to the vagina, then radiation and chemotherapy are both given.Sarcoma may be treated with a combination of chemotherapy, surgery, and radiation.", "Causes": "Most cancerous vaginal tumors occur when another cancer, such as cervical or endometrial cancer, spreads. This is called secondary vaginal cancer.Primary vaginal cancer is rare. Most primary vaginal cancers start in skin cells called squamous cells. This cancer is known as squamous cell cancer. The other types are adenocarcinoma, melanoma, and sarcoma.The cause of squamous cell carcinoma of the vagina is unknown. But a history of cervical cancer is common in women with squamous cell carcinoma of the vagina. Most women with squamous cell cancer of the vagina are over 50. Adenocarcinoma of the vagina usually affects younger women. The average age at which this cancer is diagnosed is 19. Women whose mothers took diethylstilbestrol (DES) to prevent miscarriages during the first 3 months of pregnancy are more likely to develop vaginal adenocarcinoma.Sarcoma of the vagina is a rare cancer that mainly occurs in infancy and early childhood.", "Prevention": "There are no definite ways to prevent this cancer. You can increase your chance of early detection by getting regular yearly pelvic examinations and Pap smears."}, "Von Willebrand disease": {"description": "Von Willebrand disease is the most common hereditary bleeding disorder.", "Possible Complications": "Bleeding may occur after surgery or when you have a tooth pulled. Aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can make this condition worse. Do not take these medicines without first talking to your doctor or nurse. ", "Symptoms": ["Abnormal menstrual bleeding", "Bleeding of the gums", "Bruising", "Nosebleeds", "Skin rash"], "Exams and Tests": "Von Willebrand disease may be hard to diagnose. Low von Willebrand factor levels and bleeding do not always mean you have von Willebrand disease.Tests that may be done to diagnose this disease include:Bleeding time, Blood typing, Factor VIII level, Platelet function analysis, Platelet count, Ristocetin cofactor test, Von Willebrand factor specific tests . ", "Treatment": "Treatment may include DDAVP (desamino-8-arginine vasopressin), a medicine to raise von Willebrand factor level and reduce the chances for bleeding. However, DDAVP does not work for all types of von Willebrand disease. Tests should be done to determine what type of von Willebrand you have. If you are going to have surgery, your doctor may give you DDAVP before surgery to see if your von Willebrand factor levels increase.The drug Alphanate (antihemophilic factor) is approved to decrease bleeding in patients with the disease who must have surgery or any other invasive procedure.Blood plasma or certain factor VIII preparations may also be used to decrease bleeding.", "Causes": "Von Willebrand disease is caused by a deficiency of von Willebrand factor. Von Willebrand factor helps blood platelets clump together and stick to the blood vessel wall, which is necessary for normal blood clotting. There are several types of Von Willebrand disease.A family history of a bleeding disorder is the primary risk factor. "}, "Vaginal or uterine bleeding - overview": {"description": "Many women have abnormal bleeding between their periods at some point in their lives. Abnormal bleeding occurs when you have:", "Symptoms": ["Bleeding or spotting between periods", "Bleeding after sex", "Bleeding more heavily (passing large clots, needing to change protection during the night, soaking through a sanitary pad or tampon every hour for 2 to 3 hours in a row)", "Bleeding for more days than normal or for more than 7 days", "Menstrual cycle less than 28 days (more common) or more than 35 days apart", "Bleeding after you have gone through menopause ", "When menstruation begins and ends", "How much flow you have (count numbers of pads and tampons used, noting whether they are soaked)", "Bleeding between periods and after sex", "Any other symptoms you have "], "Exams and Tests": "Your doctor will perform a physical exam, including a pelvic exam. Your doctor will ask questions about your medical history and symptomsYou may have certain tests, including:Pap test, Urinalysis, Thyroid functioning tests, Complete blood count (CBC), Iron count, Pregnancy test . Based on your symptoms, other tests may be needed. Some can be done in your health care provider's office. Others may be done at a hospital or surgical center: Sonohysterography: Fluid is placed in the uterus through a thin tube, while ultrasound images are made of the uterus., Ultrasound: Sound waves are used to make a picture of the pelvic organs., Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): In this imaging test, powerful magnets are used to create images of internal organs., Hysteroscopy: A thin device is inserted through the vagina and the opening of the cervix. It lets the provider view the inside of the uterus., Endometrial biopsy: Using a small or thin catheter (tube), tissue is taken from the lining of the uterus (endometrium). It is looked at under a microscope. . ", "Causes": "There are many causes of abnormal vaginal bleeding.HORMONESMost often, abnormal uterine bleeding is caused by a hormone imbalance. When hormones are the cause, doctors call the problem dysfunctional uterine bleeding (DUB). DUB is more common in teenagers or in women who are approaching menopause. It is not always clear what causes hormone changes that lead to DUB. Hormone changes may be due to:Menopause or perimenopause, Changes in birth control pills or hormone medicines . PREGNANCYPregnancy complications such as:Ectopic pregnancy, Miscarriage . PROBLEMS WITH REPRODUCTIVE ORGANSProblems with reproductive organs may include:Infection in the uterus (pelvic inflammatory disease), Recent injury or surgery to the uterus, Noncancerous growths in the womb, including uterine fibroids, uterine of cervical polyps, and adenomyosis, Inflammation or infection of the cervix (cervicitis), Injury or disease of the vaginal opening (caused by intercourse, infection, polyp, genital warts, ulcer, or varicose veins), Endometrial hyperplasia (thickening or build-up of the lining of the uterus) . MEDICAL CONDITIONSProblems with medical conditions may include:Polycystic ovary syndrome, Cancer or precancer of the cervix, uterus, or (very rarely) fallopian tube, Thyroid or pituitary disorders, Diabetes, Cirrhosis of the liver, Lupus erythematosus, Bleeding disorders . OTHER CAUSESOther causes may include:Use of an intrauterine device (IUD) for birth control (may cause spotting), Cervical or endometrial biopsy or other procedures, Changes in exercise routine, Diet changes, Recent weight loss or gain, Stress, Use of certain drugs such as blood thinners (warfarin or Coumadin), Sexual abuse, An object in the vagina. . ", "Prevention": "Aspirin may prolong bleeding and should be avoided if you have bleeding problems. Ibuprofen is usually works better than aspirin for relieving menstrual cramps. It also may reduce the amount of blood you lose during a period.", "Treatment": "Treatment depends on the specific cause of the vaginal bleeding, including:Dysfunctional uterine bleeding, Endometriosis, Uterine fibroids, Ectopic pregnancy, Polycystic ovary syndrome. Treatment may include hormonal medicines, pain relievers, and possibly surgery.The type of hormone you take will depend on whether you want to get pregnant as well as your age.Birth control pills can help make your periods more regular., Hormones also can be given as an injection, as a vaginal cream, or through an IUD that releases hormones., An IUD is a birth control device that is inserted in the uterus. The hormones in the IUD are released slowly and may control abnormal bleeding. . Other medications given for abnormal uterine bleeding may include:Nnonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (ibuprofen or naproxen) to help control bleeding and reduce menstrual cramps, Tranexamic acid to help treat heavy menstrual bleeding, Antibiotics to treat infections . "}, "Vascular ring": {"description": "Vascular ring is an abnormal formation of the aorta, the large artery that carries blood from the heart to the rest of the body. It is a congenital problem, which means it is present at birth.", "Possible Complications": "Delaying surgery in serious cases can lead to serious complications, such as damage to the trachea and death.", "Symptoms": ["High-pitched cough", "Loud breathing (stridor)", "Repeated pneumonias or respiratory infections", "Respiratory distress", "Wheezing", "Choking", "Difficulty eating solid foods", "Difficulty swallowing (dysphagia)", "Gastroesophageal reflux (GERD)", "Slow breast or bottle feeding", "Vomiting"], "Exams and Tests": "The doctor will listen to the baby's breathing to rule out other breathing disorders such as asthma. Listening to the child's heart through a stethoscope can help identify murmurs and other heart problems.The following tests can help diagnose vascular ring:Chest x-ray, Computed tomography (CT) scan of the heart and major blood vessels, Camera down the throat to examine the airways (bronchoscopy), Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the heart and major blood vessels, Ultrasound examination (echocardiogram) of heart, X-ray of blood vessels (angiography), X-ray of the esophagus using a special dye to better highlight the area (esophagram or barium swallow) . ", "Treatment": "Surgery is usually performed as soon as possible on children with symptoms. The goal of surgery is to split the vascular ring and relieve pressure on the surrounding structures. The procedure is usually done through a small surgical cut in the left side of the chest between the ribs.Changing the child's diet may help relieve the digestive symptoms of vascular ring. The doctor will prescribe medications (such as antibiotics) to treat any respiratory tract infections, if they occur.Children who do not\u00a0have symptoms may not need treatment, but should be carefully watched to make sure the condition does not become worse.", "Causes": "Vascular ring is rare. It accounts for less than 1% of all congenital heart problems. The condition occurs as often in males as females. Some infants with vascular ring also have another congenital heart problem.Vascular ring occurs very early in the baby's development in the womb. Normally, the aorta develops from one of several curved pieces of tissue (arches). The body breaks down some of the remaining arches, while others form into arteries. Some arteries that should break down do not, which\u00a0forms a vascular ring.With vascular ring, some of the arches and vessels that should have changed into arteries or disappeared are still present when the baby is born. These arches form a ring of blood vessels, which encircles and presses down on the windpipe (trachea) and esophagus.Several different types of vascular ring exist. In some types, the vascular ring only partially encircles the trachea and esophagus, but it still can cause symptoms.", "Prevention": "There is no known way to prevent this condition."}, "Varicose veins and venous insufficiency": {"Symptoms": ["Fullness, heaviness, aching, and sometimes pain in the legs", "Visible,\u00a0swollen veins", "Mild swelling of feet or ankles", "Itching", "Leg swelling", "Leg or calf pain after sitting or standing for long periods", "Skin color changes of the legs or ankles", "Dry, irritated, scaly skin that can crack easily", "Skin sores (ulcers) that don't heal easily", "Thickening and hardening of the skin\u00a0in the\u00a0legs and ankles (this can happen over time)"], "Exams and Tests": "Your doctor will examine your legs to look for swelling, changes in skin color, or sores. Your doctor also may:Check blood flow in the veins, Rule out other problems with the legs (such as a blood clot) . ", "description": "Varicose veins are swollen, twisted, and enlarged veins that you can see under the skin. They are often red or blue in color. They usually appear in the legs, but can occur in other parts of the body.", "Causes": "Normally, one-way valves in your leg veins keep blood moving up toward the heart. When the valves do not work properly, they allow blood to back up into the vein. The vein swells from the blood that collects there, which causes varicose veins. Smaller varicose veins that you can see on the surface of the skin are called spider veins.Varicose veins are common, and affect more women than men. They don't cause problems for most people. However, in some people, they can lead to serious conditions, such as leg swelling and pain, blood clots, and skin changes.Risk factors include:Older age, Being female (hormonal changes from puberty, pregnancy, and menopause can lead to varicose veins, and taking birth control pills or hormone replacement can increase your risk), Being born with defective valves, Obesity, Pregnancy, History of blood clots in your legs, Standing or sitting for long periods of time, Family history of varicose veins . ", "Treatment": "Your doctor may suggest that you take the following self-care steps to help manage varicose veins:Wear compression stockings to decrease swelling.\u00a0These stockings\u00a0gently squeeze your legs to move blood up towards your heart., Do not sit or stand for long periods. Even moving your legs slightly helps keep the blood flowing., Raise your legs above your heart three or four times a day for 15 minutes at a time., Care for wounds in you have any open sores or infections. Your health care provider can show you how., Lose weight if you are overweight., Get more exercise. This can help you keep off weight and help move blood up your legs. Walking or swimming are good options., If you have dry or cracked skin on your legs, moisturizing may help. However, some skin care treatments can make the problem worse. Talk to your health care provider before using any lotions, creams, or antibiotic ointments. Your provider can recommend lotions that can help. . If your condition is severe, your doctor may recommend the following treatments:Laser therapy. Strong bursts of light are projected on smaller varicose veins, making them disappear., Sclerotherapy. Salt water or a chemical solution is injected into the vein. The vein hardens and disappears., Ablation. Heat is used to close off and destroy the vein. The vein disappears over time., Microphlebectomy. Small surgical cuts are made in the leg near the damaged vein. The vein is removed through one of the cuts., Bypass. Surgery reroutes blood flow around the blocked vein. A tube or blood vessel taken from your body is used to make a detour around, or bypass the damaged vein., Angioplasty and stenting.\u00a0A procedure opens a narrowed or blocked vein. Angioplasty uses a tiny medical balloon to widen the blocked vein. The balloon presses against the inside wall of the vein to open it and improve blood flow. A tiny metal mesh tube called a stent is then placed inside the vein to prevent it from narrowing again. . "}, "Ventricular septal defect": {"description": "Ventricular septal defect\u00a0is a\u00a0hole in the wall that separates the right and left ventricles of the heart. Ventricular septal defect is one of the most common congenital (present from birth) heart defects. It may occur by itself or with other congenital diseases.", "Possible Complications": "Aortic insufficiency (leaking of the valve that separates the left ventricle from the aorta), Damage to the electrical conduction system of the heart during surgery (causing an irregular heart rhythm)\r\n  , Delayed growth and development (failure to thrive in infancy), Heart failure , \r\n  Infective endocarditis (bacterial infection of the heart)\u00a0\u00a0 , Pulmonary hypertension (high blood pressure in the lungs) leading to failure of the right side of the heart. ", "Symptoms": ["Shortness of breath", "Fast breathing", "Hard breathing", "Paleness", "Failure to gain weight", "Fast heart rate", "Sweating while feeding", "Frequent respiratory infections"], "Exams and Tests": "Listening with a stethoscope usually reveals a heart murmur. The loudness of the murmur is related to the size of the defect and amount of blood crossing the defect.Tests may include:Cardiac catheterization (rarely needed, unless there are concerns of high blood pressure in the lungs), Chest x-ray -- looks to see if there is a large heart with fluid in the lungs, ECG -- shows signs of an enlarged left ventricle, Echocardiogram -- used to make a definite diagnosis , MRI of the heart -- used to find out how much blood is getting to the lungs. ", "Treatment": "If the defect is small, no treatment may be needed. But the baby should be closely monitored by a health care provider to make sure that the hole eventually closes properly and signs of heart failure do not occur.Babies with a large VSD who have symptoms related to heart failure may need medicine to control the symptoms and surgery to close the hole. Medications may include digitalis (digoxin) and diuretics.If symptoms continue, even with medication, surgery to close the defect with a patch is needed. Some VSDs can be closed with a special device during a cardiac catheterization, which avoids the need for surgery, but only certain types of defects can successfully be treated this way.Having surgery for a VSD with no symptoms is controversial. Discuss this carefully with your health care provider.", "Causes": "Before a baby is born, the right and left ventricles of its heart are not separate. As the fetus grows, a wall forms to separate these two ventricles. If the wall does not completely form, a hole remains. This hole is known as a ventricular septal defect, or a VSD.Ventricular septal defect is one of the most common congenital heart defects. The baby may have no symptoms, and the hole can eventually close as the wall continues to grow after birth. If the hole is large, too much blood will be pumped to the lungs, leading to heart failure.The cause of VSD is not yet known. This defect often occurs along with other congenital heart defects.In adults, ventricular septal defects are a rare but serious complication of heart attacks. These holes\u00a0do not result from a birth defect.", "Prevention": "Except for VSD that is caused by a heart attack, this condition is always present at birth.Drinking alcohol and using the antiseizure medicines depakote and dilantin during pregnancy\u00a0may increase the risk\u00a0of VSDs. Other than avoiding these things during pregnancy, there is no known way to prevent a VSD."}, "Ventricular fibrillation": {"description": "Ventricular fibrillation (VF) is a severely abnormal heart rhythm (arrhythmia) that is life threatening.", "Possible Complications": "\u00a0", "Symptoms": ["\r\n  Chest pain\r\n  ", "\r\n  Dizziness\r\n  ", "\r\n  Nausea\r\n  ", "\r\n  Rapid heartbeat\r\n  ", "\r\n  Shortness of breath\r\n  "], "Exams and Tests": "A cardiac monitor will show a very disorganized (\"chaotic\") heart rhythm.Tests will be done to look for the cause of the VF.", "Treatment": "Ventricular fibrillation is a medical emergency. It must be treated immediately to save a person's life.Call for emergency help (such as 911) if a person who is having a VF episode collapses at home or becomes unconscious. While waiting for help, place the person's head and neck in line with the rest of the body to help make breathing easier. Start CPR by doing chest compressions (\"push hard and push fast\")., Continue to do this until the person becomes alert or help arrives. . VF is treated by delivering a quick electric shock through the chest. It is done using a device called an external defibrillator. The electric shock can immediately restore the heartbeat to a normal rhythm, and should be done as quickly as possible. Many public places now have these machines.Medicines may be given to control the heartbeat and heart function. An implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) is a device that can be implanted in the chest wall of people who are at risk for this serious rhythm disorder The ICD detects the dangerous heart rhythm and quickly sends a shock to correct it. It is a good idea for family members and friends of people who have had VF and heart disease to take a CPR course. CPR courses are available through the American Red Cross, hospitals, or the American Heart Association.", "Causes": "The heart pumps blood to the lungs, brain, and other organs. If the heartbeat is interrupted, even for a few seconds, it can lead to fainting (syncope) or cardiac arrest.Fibrillation is an uncontrolled twitching or quivering of muscle fibers (fibrils). When it occurs in the lower chambers of the heart, it is called ventricular fibrillation. During ventricular fibrillation, blood is not pumped from the heart. Sudden cardiac death results.The most common cause of VF is a heart attack. However, VF can occur whenever the heart muscle does not get enough oxygen for any reason. Conditions that can lead to VF include:Electrocution accidents or injury to the heart, Heart attack, Heart disease that is present at birth (congenital), Heart muscle disease, including cardiomyopathies, Heart surgery, Narrowed coronary arteries, Sudden cardiac death (commotio cordis); most often occurs in athletes who have had an injury over the surface of the heart, Medications . Most people with VF have no history of heart disease. However, they often have heart disease risk factors, such as smoking, high blood pressure, and diabetes."}, "Vaginismus": {"Symptoms": ["Difficult or painful vaginal penetration during sex. Vaginal penetration may not be possible.", "Vaginal pain during sexual intercourse or a pelvic exam"], "Exams and Tests": "A pelvic exam can confirm the diagnosis. A medical history and complete physical exam are needed to look for other causes of pain with sexual intercourse (dyspareunia).", "description": "Vaginismus is an involuntary spasm of the muscles surrounding the vagina. The spasms close the vagina and can prevent sexual activity and medical exams. ", "Causes": "Vaginismus is a sexual problem. It has several possible causes, including: Past sexual trauma or abuse, Psychological factors, A response that develops due to physical pain, Intercourse. Sometimes no cause can be found.Vaginismus is an uncommon condition. ", "Treatment": "A health care team made up of gynecologist, physical therapist, and sexual counselor can help with treatment.Treatment involves a combination of physical therapy, education, counseling, and exercises such as pelvic floor muscle contraction and relaxation (Kegel exercises).Vaginal dilation exercises using plastic dilators are recommended. This method helps to make the person less sensitive to vaginal penetration. These exercises should be done under the direction of a sex therapist, physical therapist, or other health care provider. Therapy should involve the partner and can slowly lead to more intimate contact. Intercourse may ultimately be possible.You will get information from your health care provider. Topics may include:Sexual anatomy, Sexual response cycle, Common myths about sex . "}, "Vasomotor rhinitis": {"Symptoms": ["Runny nose", "Nasal congestion (stuffy nose)", "Sneezing", "Watery nasal drainage"], "Exams and Tests": "The doctor will ask about your symptoms, when they occur, and what seems to trigger them.You will also be asked about your home and work environment. The doctor may look inside your nose and see that the tissues lining your\u00a0nose are swollen due to inflamed blood vessels.A skin test\u00a0may be done to rule out allergies as a cause of your symptoms.If your doctor determines you cannot have skin testing, special blood tests may help with the diagnosis. These tests, known as IgE RAST tests, can measure the levels of allergy-related substances..A complete blood count (CBC) test, called the eosinophil count, may also help diagnose allergies.", "description": "Rhinitis is a condition that includes a runny nose, sneezing, and nasal stuffiness. When hay fever or allergies are not causing these symptoms, the condition is called nonallergic rhinitis. One type of nonallergic rhinitis is called vasomotor rhinitis.", "Causes": "Vasomotor rhinitis is not caused by an infection or allergy. The exact cause is unknown. Symptoms are triggered by something that irritates the nose, such as: A dry atmosphere, Air pollution, Alcohol, Certain medications, Spicy foods, Strong emotions. ", "Treatment": "\r\n\r\nThe main treatment is simply avoiding the things that trigger your symptoms. In some cases, decongestants or a nasal spray containing an antihistamine may help. Corticosteroid nasal sprays may be useful for some forms of vasomotor rhinitis."}, "Venous insufficiency": {"Symptoms": ["Dull aching, heaviness, or cramping in legs", "Itching and tingling", "Pain that gets worse when standing", "Pain that gets better when legs are raised", "Swelling of the legs", "Redness of the legs and ankles\r\n  ", "Skin color changes around the ankles", "Varicose veins on the surface (superficial)", "Thickening and hardening of the skin on the legs and ankles (lipodermatosclerosis)", "Ulcers on the legs and ankles", "Wound that is slow to heal on the legs or ankles"], "Exams and Tests": "\r\n \r\nYour doctor will do a physical exam and ask about your symptoms and medical history. Diagnosis is often made based on the appearance of leg veins when you are standing or sitting with your legs dangling.A duplex ultrasound exam of your leg may be ordered to:Check blood flow in the veins, Rule out other problems with the legs, such as a blood clot. ", "description": "Venous insufficiency is a condition in which the veins have problems sending blood from the legs back to the heart.", "Causes": "Normally, valves in your deeper leg veins keep blood moving forward toward the heart. With chronic venous insufficiency, vein walls are weakened and valves are damaged. This causes the veins to stay filled with blood, especially when you are standing.Chronic venous insufficiency is a long-term condition. It is most commonly due to malfunctioning (incompetent) valves in the veins. It may also occur as the result of a past blood clot in the legs.Risk factors for venous insufficiency include:Age\u00a0\u00a0, Family history of this condition, Female gender (related to levels of the hormone progesterone), History of deep vein thrombosis in the legs, Obesity, Pregnancy, Sitting or standing for a long periods, Tall height. ", "Treatment": "Your doctor may suggest that you take the following self-care steps to help manage venous insufficiency:Wear compression stockings to decrease swelling., Do not sit or stand for long periods. Even moving your legs slightly helps keep\u00a0the blood flowing., Care for wounds if you have any open sores or infections., Lose weight if you are overweight., Exercise regularly. . If your condition is severe, your doctor may recommend the following treatments:Sclerotherapy. Salt water (saline) or a chemical solution is injected into the vein. The vein hardens and then disappears., Ablation. Heat is used to close off and destroy the vein. The vein disappears over time., Microphlebectomy. Small surgical cuts (incisions) are made in the leg near the damaged vein. The vein is removed through one of the incisions., Bypass. Surgery reroutes blood flow around the blocked vein. A tube or blood vessel taken from your body is used to make a detour around, or bypass, the damaged vein., Angioplasty and stenting. A procedure opens a narrowed or blocked vein. Angioplasty uses a tiny medical balloon to widen the blocked vein. The balloon presses against the inside wall of the vein to open it and improve blood flow. A tiny metal mesh tube called a stent is then placed inside the vein to prevent it from narrowing again. . Endovenous laser ablation or radiofrequency ablation may be recommended if you have:Leg pain, which may make your legs feel heavy or tired, Skin sores caused by poor blood flow in the veins, Thickening and hardening of the skin on the legs and ankles (lipodermatosclerosis) . Surgery (varicose vein stripping) to treat chronic venous insufficiency has been largely replaced by less invasive procedures. "}, "Viral gastroenteritis": {"description": "Viral gastroenteritis is swelling or inflammation of the stomach and intestines from a virus. The infection can lead to diarrhea and vomiting. It is sometimes called the \"stomach flu.\" ", "Possible Complications": "Rotavirus causes severe gastroenteritis in infants and young children. Severe dehydration and death can occur in this\u00a0age group.", "Symptoms": ["Abdominal pain", "Diarrhea", "Nausea and vomiting ", "Chills, clammy skin, or sweating", "Fever", "Joint stiffness or muscle pain \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0", "Poor feeding", "Weight loss"], "Exams and Tests": "The health care provider will look for signs of dehydration, including:Dry or sticky mouth, Lethargy or coma (severe dehydration), Low blood pressure, Low or no urine output; concentrated urine that looks dark yellow, Markedly sunken soft spots (fontanelles) on the top of an infant's head, No tears, Sunken eyes . Tests of stool samples may be used to identify the virus that is causing the sickness. Most of the time, this test is not needed for viral gastroenteritis. A stool culture may be done to find out if the problem is being caused by bacteria. ", "Treatment": "The goal of treatment is to prevent dehydration by making sure the body has enough water and fluids. Fluids and electrolytes (salt and minerals) that are lost through diarrhea or vomiting must be replaced by drinking extra fluids. Even if you are able to eat, you should still drink extra fluids between meals.Older children and adults can drink sports beverages such as Gatorade, but these should not be used for younger children. Instead, use the electrolyte and fluid replacement solutions or freezer pops available in food and drug stores., Do NOT use fruit juice (including apple juice), sodas or cola (flat or bubbly), Jell-O, or broth. These liquids do not replace lost minerals and can make diarrhea worse., Drink small amounts of fluid (2 - 4 oz.) every 30 - 60 minutes. Do not try to force down large amounts of fluid at one time, which can cause vomiting. Use a teaspoon or syringe for an infant or small child., Babies can continue to drink breast milk or formula along with extra fluids. You do NOT need to switch to a soy formula. . Try eating small amounts of food frequently. Foods to try include:Cereals, bread, potatoes, lean meats, Plain yogurt, bananas, fresh apples, Vegetables . If you have diarrhea and are unable to drink or keep down fluids because of nausea or vomiting, you may need fluids through a vein (IV). Infants and young children are more likely to need IV fluids.Parents should closely monitor the number of wet diapers an infant or young child has while sick to watch for signs of dehydration. People taking water pills (diuretics) who develop diarrhea may be told by their health care provider to stop taking the diuretic during the acute episode. However, DO NOT stop taking any prescription medicine without first talking to your health care provider.Antibiotics do not work for viruses.You can buy medicines at the drugstore that can help stop or slow diarrhea.Do not use these medicines without talking to your health care provider if you have bloody diarrhea, a fever, or if the diarrhea is severe., Do not give these medicines to children. . ", "Causes": "Gastroenteritis can affect one person or a group of people who all ate the same food or drank the same water. The germs may get into your system directly from food or water or by way of objects such as plates and eating utensils. They can also be passed from person to person with close contact. Viral gastroenteritis is a leading cause of severe diarrhea in both adults and children. Many types of viruses can cause gastroenteritis. The most common ones are:Norovirus (Norwalk-like virus) is common among school-age children. It may also cause outbreaks in hospitals and on cruise ships., Rotavirus is the leading cause of severe gastroenteritis in children. It can also infect adults who are exposed to children with the virus, and people living in nursing homes., Astrovirus, Enteric adenovirus. People with the highest risk for severe gastroenteritis include young children, the elderly, and people who have a suppressed immune system.", "Prevention": "Most viruses and bacteria are\u00a0passed from person to person\u00a0by unwashed hands. The best way to prevent viral gastroenteritis is to handle food properly and wash your hands thoroughly after using the toilet.Vaccination\u00a0to prevent severe rotavirus infection\u00a0is recommended for infants starting at age 2 months."}, "Vernal conjunctivitis": {"description": "Vernal conjunctivitis is long-term (chronic) swelling (inflammation) of the outer lining of the eyes. It is due to an allergic reaction.", "Possible Complications": "Continuing discomfort, Reduced vision, Scarring of cornea. ", "Symptoms": ["Burning eyes", "Discomfort in bright light (photophobia)", "Itching eyes", "The area around the cornea where the white of the eye and the cornea meet (limbus) may become rough and swollen", "The inside of the eyelids (most often the upper ones) may become rough and covered with bumps and a white mucus", "Watering eyes "], "Exams and Tests": "The health care provider will perform an eye exam.", "Treatment": "Avoid rubbing the eyes, because this can irritate them more.Cold compresses (a clean cloth soaked in cold water and then placed over the closed eyes) may be soothing.Lubricating drops may also help soothe the eye.If home-care measures do not help, you may need to be treated by your health care provider. This may include:Antihistamine or anti-inflammatory drops that are placed into the eye, Eye drops that prevent a type of white blood cell called mast cells from releasing histamine (may help prevent future attacks), Mild steroids that are applied directly to the surface of the eye (for severe reactions). ", "Causes": "Vernal conjunctivitis often occurs in people with a strong family history of allergies. These may include allergic rhinitis, asthma, and eczema. It is most common in young males, and most often occurs during the spring and summer.", "Prevention": "Using air conditioning or moving to a cooler climate may help prevent the problem from getting worse in the future."}, "Vaginal yeast infection": {"description": "Vaginal yeast infection is an infection of the vagina. It is most commonly due to the fungus Candida albicans.", "Possible Complications": "A lot of scratching may cause the skin to crack, making you more likely to get a skin infection.Repeat infections that occur right after treatment, or a yeast infection that does not respond well to treatment, may be an early sign of diabetes or rarely, HIV.", "Symptoms": ["Abnormal vaginal discharge. Discharge can range from slightly watery, white discharge to thick, white, and chunky (like cottage cheese).", "Itching and burning of the vagina and labia", "Pain with intercourse", "Painful urination", "Redness and swelling of the skin just outside of the vagina (vulva)"], "Exams and Tests": "You will have a pelvic exam. It may show: Swelling and redness of the skin of the vulva, in the vagina, and on the cervix , Dry, white spots on the vaginal wall, Cracks in the skin of the vulva.. A small amount of the vaginal discharge is examined using a microscope. This is called a wet mount and KOH test.Sometimes, a culture is taken when the infection does not get better with treatment or comes back many times.Your health care provider may order other tests to rule out other causes of your symptoms.", "Treatment": "Medicines to treat vaginal yeast infections are available as creams, ointments, vaginal tablets or suppositories. Most can be bought without needing to see your health care provider.Treating yourself at home is probably\u00a0OK if:Your symptoms are mild and you do not have pelvic pain or a fever, This is not your first yeast infection and you have not had many yeast infections in the past, You are not pregnant, You are not worried about other sexually transmitted infections from recent sexual contact . Medicines you can buy yourself to treat a vaginal yeast infection are:Miconazole, Clotrimazole, Tioconazole, Butoconazole . When using these medicines:Read the packages carefully and use them as directed. , You will need to take the medicine for 1 - 7 days, depending on which medicine you buy. (If you do not get repeated infections, a 1-day medicine might work for you.), Do not stop using these medicines early because your symptoms are better. . You doctor can also prescribe a pill that you only take by mouth once.If your symptoms are worse or you get vaginal yeast infections often, you may need:Medicine for up to 14 days, Clotrimazole vaginal suppository or fluconazole pill every week to prevent new infections . To help prevent and treat vaginal discharge:Keep your genital area clean and dry. Avoid soap and rinse with water only. Sitting in a warm, but not hot, bath may help your symptoms., Avoid douching. Although many women feel cleaner if they douche after their period or intercourse, it may worsen vaginal discharge. Douching removes healthy bacteria lining the vagina that protect against infection., Eat yogurt with live cultures or take Lactobacillus acidophilus tablets when you are on antibiotics. This will help to prevent a yeast infection., Use condoms to avoid catching or spreading infections., Avoid using feminine hygiene sprays, fragrances, or powders in the genital area., Avoid wearing tight-fitting pants or shorts, which may cause irritation., Wear cotton underwear or cotton-crotch pantyhose. Avoid underwear made of silk or nylon, because they can increase sweating in the genital area, which can cause irritation., Use pads and not tampons., Keep your blood sugar levels under good control if you have diabetes., \r\n Avoid wearing wet bathing suits or exercise clothing for long periods of time. Wash sweaty or wet clothes after each use. . ", "Causes": "Most women have a vaginal yeast infection at some time. Candida albicans is a common type of fungus. It is often found in small amounts in the vagina, mouth, digestive tract, and on the skin. Most of the time, it does not cause infection or symptoms.Candida and the many other germs that normally live in the vagina keep each other in balance. However, sometimes the number of Candida increases, leading to a yeast infection.This can happen if: You are taking antibiotics used to treat another infection. Antibiotics change the normal balance between germs in the vagina., You are pregnant, You are obese, You have diabetes. A yeast infection is not spread through sexual contact. However, some men will develop symptoms such as itching and a rash on the penis after having sexual contact with an infected partner.Having many vaginal yeast infections may be a sign of other health problems. Other vaginal infections and discharges can be mistaken for a vaginal yeast infection."}, "VIPoma": {"description": "VIPoma is a very rare cancer that usually grows from cells in the pancreas called islet cells.", "Possible Complications": "Complications may include:Cancer spread (metastasis), Cardiac arrest from low blood potassium level, Dehydration . ", "Symptoms": ["Abdominal pain and cramping", "Diarrhea (watery, and often in large amounts)", "Dehydration", "Flushing or redness of the face", "Muscle cramps due to low blood calcium (hypokalemia)", "Nausea", "Weight loss "], "Exams and Tests": "Tests that may be done include:Blood chemistry tests (basic or comprehensive metabolic panel), CT scan of the abdomen, MRI of the abdomen, Stool examination for cause of diarrhea and electrolyte levels, Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) level in the blood . ", "Treatment": "The first goal of treatment is to correct dehydration. Fluids are often given through a vein (intravenous fluids) to replace fluids lost through diarrhea.The next goal is to slow the diarrhea. Medicines can help control diarrhea. One such medicine is octreotide. It is a manmade form of a natural hormone that blocks the action of VIP.The best chance of a cure is surgery to remove the tumor. If the tumor has not spread to other organs, surgery can often cure the condition.", "Causes": "VIPoma causes cells in the pancreas to produce a high level of a hormone called vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP). This hormone increases secretions from the intestines. It also relaxes some of the smooth muscles in the gastrointestinal system.The cause is not known.VIPomas are often diagnosed in adults, most commonly at age 50. Women are more likely to be affected than men. This cancer is rare. Each year, only about 1 in 10 million people are diagnosed with a VIPoma."}, "Vertebrobasilar circulatory disorders": {"description": "Vertebrobasilar circulatory disorders are conditions in which blood supply to the back of the brain is disrupted.", "Possible Complications": "Complications of vertebrobasilar circulatory disorders are stroke and its complications. These include:Breathing (respiratory) failure (which may require the use of a machine to help the patient breathe), Lung problems (especially lung infections), Heart attack, Lack of fluids in the body (dehydration) and swallowing problems (sometimes\u00a0requiring tube\u00a0feeding), Problems with movement or sensation, including paralysis and numbness, Formation of clots in the legs, Vision loss. Complications caused by medicines or surgery may also occur.", "Symptoms": ["Difficulty\u00a0pronouncing words", "Difficulty swallowing", "Double vision or vision loss", "Numbness or tingling, most often on the face or scalp", "Slurred speech", "Sudden falls (drop attacks)", "Vertigo (sensation of things spinning around)", "Memory loss ", "Bladder or bowel control problems", "Difficulty walking (unsteady gait)", "Headache", "Hearing loss", "Muscle weakness", "Nausea and vomiting", "Neck ache", "Pain in one or more parts of the body, which gets worse with touch and cold temperatures", "Poor coordination", "Sleepiness or sleep from which the person cannot be awakened", "Sudden, uncoordinated movements", "Sweating on the face, arms, or legs "], "Exams and Tests": "You may have the following tests, depending on the cause:CT or MRI of the brain, Computed tomography angiography (CTA), magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), or ultrasound to look at blood vessels in the brain, Blood tests, including blood clotting studies, Echocardiogram, Electrocardiogram (ECG) and Holter monitor (24-hour ECG), X-rays of the arteries (angiogram) . ", "Treatment": "Vertebrobasilar symptoms that start suddenly are a medical emergency that need to be treated right away. Treatment is similar to that for stroke.To treat and prevent the condition, your health care provider may recommend:Taking blood-thinning drugs, such as aspirin, warfarin (Coumadin), or clopidogrel (Plavix) to lower the risk of stroke, Changing your diet and medication to lower cholesterol and better control blood pressure, Exercising, Losing weight, Stopping smoking . ", "Causes": "Two vertebral arteries join to form the basilar artery. These are the main blood vessels that provide blood flow to the back of the brain. The areas in the back of the brain that receive blood from these arteries are needed to keep a person alive. These areas control breathing, heart rate, swallowing, vision, movement, and posture or balance. All of the nervous system signals from other parts of the brain that go to the rest of the body, and the signals that go from the body back to the brain pass through the back of the brain.Many different conditions may reduce or stop blood flow in the back part of the brain. The most common are smoking, high blood pressure, diabetes, and a high cholesterol level. These are similar to the risk factors for any stroke. Vertebrobasilar vascular disorders may also be caused by a tear in the wall of an artery. Sometimes, blood clots in the heart travel to the vertebrobasilar arteries and cause a stroke. Less common causes of vertebrobasilar vascular disorders include connective tissue diseases, blood vessel inflammation (vasculitis), and problems in the spinal bones of the neck."}, "Volkmann ischemic contracture": {"description": "Volkmann contracture is a deformity of the hand, fingers, and wrist caused by injury to the muscles of the forearm.", "Possible Complications": "The more severe the contracture, the worse the function of the hand and wrist. In severe cases, the hand may not work at all, and you may have a loss of sensation (feeling) in the area.", "Symptoms": ["Decreased sensation", "Paleness of the skin", "Weakness"], "Exams and Tests": "The doctor will perform a physical exam. If you have compartment syndrome in the forearm, you will have severe pain when the doctor moves the fingers up and down. Your forearm may be very swollen and shiny. You will feel pain when your forearm is squeezed.The diagnosis can be confirmed with a test that directly measures pressure in the area. This involves inserting a needle into the affected area. The needle is attached to a pressure meter. There is a specific pressure level that confirms the diagnosis of compartment syndrome.", "Treatment": "If there is a forearm or elbow fracture, you should use a sling or splint to keep the area still and raise the arm above heart level. This helps prevent further injury and excessive swelling.The best treatment is early surgery to release the pressure in the forearm before permanent injury to the muscles and nerves occurs. Surgery to lengthen and sometimes transfer muscles is necessary to try to regain some hand function. But surgery is not as successful as early diagnosis and treatment. \r\n", "Causes": "Volkmann contracture occurs when there is a lack of blood flow (ischemia) to the forearm. This usually occurs when there is increased pressure due to swelling, a condition called compartment syndrome.Injury\u00a0to the arm, including a crush injury or fracture, can lead to swelling that presses on blood vessels and can decrease blood flow to the arm. A prolonged decrease in blood flow will injure the nerves and muscles, causing them to become stiff (scarred) and shortened.When the muscle shortens, it pulls on the joint at the end of the muscle just as it would if it were normally contracted. But because it is stiff, the joint remains bent and stuck. This condition is called a contracture.In Volkmann contracture, the muscles of the forearm are severely injured. This leads to contracture deformities of the fingers, hand, and wrist.There are three levels of severity in Volkmann contracture:Mild -- contracture of two or three fingers only, with no or limited loss of feeling, Moderate -- all fingers are bent (flexed) and the thumb is stuck in the palm; the wrist may be bent\u00a0stuck, and there is usually loss of some feeling in the hand, Severe -- all muscles in the forearm that both flex and extend the wrist and fingers are involved; this is a severely disabling condition. The injury that usually causes this condition is an elbow fracture in children. Other conditions that can cause increased pressure in the forearm include:Animal bites, Any forearm fracture, Bleeding disorders, Burns, Excessive exercise, Injection of certain medications into the forearm. "}, "Vertigo-associated disorders": {"description": "Vertigo is not the same as light-headedness. People with vertigo feel as though they are actually spinning or moving, or that the world is spinning around them.", "Possible Complications": "Vertigo\u00a0can interfere with driving, work, and lifestyle. It can also cause falls, which can lead to many injuries, including hip fractures.", "Symptoms": ["Difficulty focusing the eyes", "Dizziness", "Hearing loss in one ear", "Loss of balance (may cause falls)", "Ringing in the ears ", "Difficulty swallowing", "Double vision", "Eye movement problems", "Facial paralysis", "Slurred speech", "Weakness of the limbs "], "Exams and Tests": "Examination by the doctor may show:Difficulty walking due to loss of balance, Eye movement problems or involuntary eye movements (nystagmus), Hearing loss , Lack of coordination and balance, Weakness. Tests that may be done include:Blood tests, Brain stem auditory evoked potential studies, Caloric stimulation, Electroencephalogram (EEG), Electronystagmography, Head CT, Lumbar puncture, MRI scan of head and MRA scan of blood vessels of the brain . ", "Treatment": "The cause of any brain disorder causing vertigo should be identified and treated when possible.To help resolve your symptoms, the health care provider may perform the Epley maneuver on you. This involves placing your head in different positions to help reset the balance organ. You may be prescribed medicines to treat symptoms of peripheral vertigo, such as nausea and vomiting. Physical therapy may help improve balance problems. To prevent worsening of symptoms during an episode of vertigo, try the following:Keep still. Sit or lie down when symptoms occur., Gradually resume activity., Avoid sudden position changes., Do not try to read when symptoms occur., Avoid bright lights. . You may need help walking when symptoms occur. Avoid hazardous activities such as driving, operating heavy machinery, and climbing until 1 week after symptoms have disappeared.Other treatment depends on the cause of the vertigo. Surgery may be suggested in some cases.", "Causes": "There are two types of vertigo, peripheral and central vertigo.Peripheral vertigo is due to a problem in the part of the inner ear that controls balance. These areas are called the vestibular labyrinth or semicircular canals. The problem may also involve the vestibular nerve, which connects the inner ear to the brain stem.Peripheral vertigo may be caused by:Benign positional vertigo (benign paroxysmal positional vertigo), Certain medicines such as aminoglycoside antibiotics, cisplatin, diuretics, or salicylates, Injury (such as head injury), Inflammation of the vestibular nerve (neuronitis), Labyrinthitis, Meniere's disease, Pressure on the vestibular nerve, usually from a noncancerous tumor such as a meningioma or schwannoma. Central vertigo is due to a problem in the brain, usually in the brain stem or the back part of the brain (cerebellum).Central vertigo may be caused by:Blood vessel disease, Certain drugs such as anticonvulsants, aspirin, and alcohol, Migraine, Multiple sclerosis, Seizures (rarely), Stroke, Tumors (cancerous or noncancerous) . "}}