{"Otosclerosis": {"description": "Otosclerosis is an abnormal bone growth in the middle ear that causes hearing loss.", "Possible Complications": "Complete deafness, Funny taste in the mouth, Infection, dizziness, pain, or a blood clot in the ear after surgery, Nerve damage . ", "Symptoms": ["Hearing loss (slow at first, but worsens over time)", "Ringing in the ears (tinnitus)", "Vertigo or dizziness "], "Exams and Tests": "A hearing test (audiometry/audiology) may help determine the severity of hearing loss.A special imaging test of the head called a temporal-bone CT may be used to look for other causes of hearing loss.", "Treatment": "Otosclerosis may slowly get worse. The condition may not need to be treated until you have more serious hearing problems.Medications such as fluoride, calcium, or vitamin D may help to slow the hearing loss. However, the benefits of these treatments\u00a0have not yet been proven.A hearing aid may be used to treat the hearing loss. This will not cure or prevent hearing loss from getting worse, but it may help with symptoms.Surgery to remove part of the ear (stapes) and replace it with a prosthesis can cure conductive hearing loss. A total replacement is called a stapedectomy. Sometimes only part of the stapes is removed and a small hole is made in the bottom of it. This is called a stapedotomy. Sometimes a laser is used to help with the surgery. ", "Causes": "The exact cause of otosclerosis is unknown. It may be passed down through families.People who have otosclerosis have an abnormal sponge-like bone growing in the middle ear. This growth prevents the ear bones from vibrating in response to sound waves. These vibrations are needed in order for you to hear.Otosclerosis is the most common cause of middle ear hearing loss in young adults. It typically begins in early to mid-adulthood. It is more common in women than in men. The condition may affect one or both ears.Risks for this condition include pregnancy and a family history of hearing loss. Caucasians are more likely to develop this condition than people of other races."}, "Osteomalacia": {"description": "Osteomalacia is softening of the bones. It occurs because of a lack of vitamin D or a problem with the body's ability to break down and use this vitamin, which helps your body absorb calcium.\u00a0Your body\u00a0needs calcium to\u00a0maintain the strength and hardness of your bones.", "Possible Complications": "Symptoms can return.", "Symptoms": ["Bone fractures that happen without a real injury", "Muscle weakness", "Widespread bone pain, especially in the hips", "Numbness around the mouth", "Numbness of the arms and legs", "Spasms of the hands or feet"], "Exams and Tests": "Blood tests will be done to check vitamin D, creatinine, calcium, phosphate, electrolytes, alkaline phosphatase and parathyroid hormone levels.Bone x-rays and a bone density test can help detect pseudofractures, bone loss, and bone softening.In some cases, a bone biopsy will be done to see if bone softening is present.", "Treatment": "Treatment may involve vitamin D, calcium, and phosphorus supplements taken by mouth. People who cannot absorb nutrients well through the intestines may need larger doses of vitamin D and calcium. People with certain conditions may need regular blood tests to monitor blood levels of phosphorus and calcium.", "Causes": "Bones that have softened due to osteomalacia have a normal amount of collagen, which gives structure to the bones. However, the bones\u00a0lack the proper amount of calcium to keep them hard.There are many causes of osteomalacia. In children, the condition is called rickets. It is most often caused by a low level of vitamin D.Other conditions that may lead to osteomalacia include:Not enough vitamin D in the diet, Not enough exposure to sunlight, which produces vitamin D in the body, Malabsorption of vitamin D by the intestines . Factors that interfere with the body's ability to\u00a0form vitamin D include:Having very little exposure to sunlight, Shorter days of sunlight, Smog, Using very strong sunscreen . Elderly people and people who do not drink milk are at higher risk for osteomalacia.Other conditions that may cause osteomalacia include:Cancer, Disorders of vitamin D metabolism, Kidney failure and acidosis, Lack of enough phosphates in the diet, Liver disease, Side effects of medications used to treat seizures. ", "Prevention": "Eating a diet rich in vitamin D and getting plenty of sunlight and calcium can help prevent osteomalacia due to a vitamin D deficiency."}, "Opiate withdrawal": {"description": "Opiate drugs include heroin, morphine, codeine, Oxycontin, Dilaudid, methadone, and others.", "Possible Complications": "Complications include vomiting and breathing in stomach contents into the lungs. This is called aspiration, and can cause lung infection. Vomiting and diarrhea can cause dehydration and body chemical and mineral (electrolyte) disturbances.The biggest complication is return to drug use. Most opiate overdose deaths occur in persons who have just withdrawn or detoxed. Because withdrawal reduces\u00a0the person's\u00a0tolerance to the drug, those who have just gone through withdrawal can overdose on a much smaller dose than they used to take.Longer-term treatment is recommended for most persons following withdrawal. This can include self-help groups, like Narcotics Anonymous or SMART Recovery, outpatient counseling, intensive outpatient treatment (day hospitalization), or inpatient treatment.Those withdrawing from opiates should be checked for depression and other mental illnesses. Appropriate treatment of such disorders can reduce the risk of relapse. Antidepressant medications should NOT be withheld under the assumption that the depression is only related to withdrawal, and not a pre-existing condition.Treatment goals should be discussed with the person and recommendations for care made accordingly. If a person continues to withdraw repeatedly, methadone maintenance is strongly recommended.", "Symptoms": ["Agitation", "Anxiety", "Muscle aches", "Increased tearing", "Insomnia", "Runny nose", "Sweating", "Yawning", "Abdominal cramping", "Diarrhea", "Dilated pupils", "Goose bumps", "Nausea", "Vomiting"], "Exams and Tests": "Your doctor can often diagnose opiate withdrawal after performing a physical exam and asking questions about your medical history and drug use.Urine or blood tests to screen for drugs can confirm opiate use.Other testing will depend on the physician's concern for additional medical problems. These test may include:Blood chemistries and liver function tests such as CHEM-20, CBC (complete blood count, measures red and white blood cells, and platelets, which help blood to clot). ", "Treatment": "Treatment involves supportive care and medications. The most commonly used medication, clonidine, primarily reduces anxiety, agitation, muscle aches, sweating, runny nose, and cramping.Other medications can treat vomiting and diarrhea.Buprenorphine (Subutex) has been shown to work better than other medications for treating withdrawal from opiates, and it can shorten the length of detoxification (detox). It may also be used for long-term maintenance, like methadone.Persons withdrawing from methadone may be placed on long-term maintenance. This involves slowly decreasing the dosage of methadone over time. This helps reduce the intensity of withdrawal symptoms.Some drug treatment programs have widely advertised treatments for opiate withdrawal called detox under anesthesia or rapid opiate detox. Such programs involve placing you under anesthesia and injecting large doses of opiate-blocking drugs, with hopes that this will speed up the return the body to normal opioid system function.There is no evidence that these programs actually reduce the time spent in withdrawal. In some cases, they may reduce the intensity of symptoms. However, there have been several deaths associated with the procedures, particularly when it is done outside a hospital.Because opiate withdrawal produces vomiting, and vomiting during anesthesia significantly increases death risk, many specialists think the risks of this procedure significantly outweigh the potential (and unproven) benefits.", "Causes": "About 9% of the population is believed to misuse opiates over the course of their lifetime, including illegal drugs like heroin and prescription pain medications such as Oxycontin.These drugs can cause physical dependence. This means that a person relies on the drug to prevent symptoms of withdrawal. Over time, greater amounts of the drug become necessary to produce the same effect (drug tolerance).The time it takes to become physically dependent varies with each individual.When the person stops taking the\u00a0drugs, the body needs time to recover, and withdrawal symptoms result. Withdrawal from opiates can occur whenever any chronic use is discontinued or reduced.Some people even withdraw from opiates after being given such drugs for pain while in the hospital without realizing what is happening to them. They think they have the flu, and because they don't know that opiates would fix the problem, they don't crave the drugs."}, "Orbital pseudotumor": {"Symptoms": ["Pain in eye, and it may be severe", "Restricted eye movement", "Decreased vision", "Double vision", "Eye swelling (proptosis)", "Red eye (rare) "], "Possible Complications": "Severe cases of orbital pseudotumor may push the eye forward so much that the lids cannot cover and protect the cornea. This causes the eye to dry out. The cornea may become cloudy or develop a sore. Also, the eye muscles may not be able to properly aim the eye which can cause double vision. ", "description": "Orbital pseudotumor is the swelling of tissue behind the eye in an area called the orbit. The orbit is the hollow space in the skull where the eye sits. The orbit protects the eyeball and the muscles and tissue that surround it. Orbital pseudotumor does not spread to other tissues or places in the body.", "Causes": "The cause is unknown. It mostly affects young women, although it can occur at any age.", "Treatment": "Mild cases may go away without treatment. More severe cases most often respond well to corticosteroid treatment. If the condition is very bad, the swelling may put pressure on the eyeball and damage it. Surgery may be needed to move the bones of the orbit to relieve the pressure. "}, "Obsessive-compulsive disorder": {"description": "Often the person carries out the behaviors to get rid of the obsessive thoughts. But this only provides temporary relief. Not doing the obsessive rituals can cause great anxiety and distress.", "Possible Complications": "Long-term complications of OCD have to do with the type of obsessions or compulsions. For example, constant handwashing can cause skin breakdown. OCD does not usually progress into another mental health problem.", "Symptoms": ["Obsessions or compulsions that are not due to medical illness or drug use", "Obsessions or compulsions that cause major distress or interfere with everyday life ", "Checking and rechecking actions (such as turning out the lights and locking the door) ", "Excessive counting", "Excessive fear of germs ", "Repeatedly washing the hands to ward off infection", "Repeating words silently", "Praying silently over and over"], "Exams and Tests": "Your own description of the behavior can help diagnose the disorder. A physical exam can rule out physical causes. A mental health assessment can rule out other mental disorders.Questionnaires can help diagnose OCD and track the progress of treatment.", "Treatment": "OCD is treated using a combination of medication and behavioral therapy.Medicines used include antidepressants, antipsychotics, and mood stabilizers.Talk therapy (cognitive behavioral therapy; CBT) has been shown to be effective for this disorder. During therapy, the patient is exposed many times to a situation that triggers the obsessive thoughts, and learns to gradually tolerate the anxiety and resist the urge to do the compulsion. Therapy can also be used to reduce stress and anxiety and resolve inner conflicts.", "Causes": "Doctors do not know the exact cause of OCD. Factors that may play a role include head injury, infections, and abnormal function in certain areas of the brain. Genes (family history) seems to play a strong role. Most people who develop it show symptoms by age 30."}, "Occupational Asthma": {"Symptoms": ["Coughing", "Tight feeling in the chest", "Shortness of breath", "Wheezing"], "Exams and Tests": "The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your medical history. Your symptoms may have a pattern of getting worse with a certain workplace environment or substance.The health care provider will listen to your lungs with a stethoscope to check for wheezing.Tests may be\u00a0ordered to\u00a0confirm diagnosis:Blood tests to look for antibodies to the substance, Bronchial provocation test (test measuring reaction to the suspected allergen), Chest x-ray, Complete blood count, Peak expiratory flow rate, Pulmonary function tests. ", "description": "Occupational asthma is a lung disorder in which substances found in the workplace cause the airways of the lungs to swell and narrow. This leads to attacks of wheezing, shortness of breath, chest tightness, and coughing.", "Causes": "Asthma is caused by inflammation (swelling) in the airways of the lungs. When an asthma attack occurs, the lining of the air passages swells and the muscles surrounding the airways become tight. This reduces the amount of air that can pass by. In\u00a0persons who have sensitive airways, asthma symptoms can be triggered by breathing in substances called triggers.Many substances in the workplace can trigger asthma symptoms, leading to occupational asthma. The most common triggers are wood dust, grain dust, animal dander, fungi, or chemicals.The following workers are at higher risk:Bakers, Detergent manufacturers, Drug manufacturers, Farmers, Grain elevator workers, Laboratory workers (especially those working with laboratory animals), Metal workers, Millers, Plastics workers, Woodworkers. ", "Treatment": "Avoiding exposure to the substance that is causing your asthma is the best treatment.Measures may include:Changing jobs (though this may be difficult to do), Moving to a different location at the\u00a0work site\u00a0where there is less exposure to the substance. This may help, but over time, even a very small amount of the substance can trigger an asthma attack., Using a respiratory device to protect or reduce your exposure may help.. Asthma medicines may help manage your symptoms. Your doctor may prescribe:Asthma quick-relief medicines, called bronchodilators, to help relax the muscles of your airways. , Asthma control medicines that are taken every day to prevent symptoms.. "}, "Obstructive uropathy": {"description": "Obstructive uropathy is a condition in which the flow of urine is blocked. This causes the urine to back up back up and injure one or both kidneys.", "Possible Complications": "Obstructive uropathy can cause permanent and severe damage to the kidneys, resulting in kidney failure.If the problem was caused by a blockage in the bladder, the bladder may have long-term damage. This may lead to problems emptying the bladder or leakage of urine.", "Symptoms": ["Mild to severe pain in the side of the body and the back (flank pain). The pain may be felt on one or both sides.", "Fever ", "Nausea or vomiting ", "Weight gain or swelling (edema) ", "Urge to urinate often ", "Decrease in the force of urine stream", "Dribbling of urine", "Not feeling as if the bladder is emptied", "Need to urinate more often at night", "Decreased amount of urine", "Blood in urine"], "Exams and Tests": "Imaging studies are done to diagnose obstructive uropathy. Commonly used tests include:Ultrasound of the belly area (abdomen) or pelvis , CT scan of the belly area (abdomen) or pelvis , Intravenous pyelogram (IVP), Voiding cystourethrogram , Renal nuclear scan, MRI. ", "Treatment": "Stents or drains placed in the ureter or in a part of the kidney called the renal pelvis may provide short-term relief of symptoms.Nephrostomy tubes, which drain urine from the kidneys through the back, may be used to bypass the blockage.A Foley catheter, placed through the urethra into the bladder, may also be help urine flow.Short-term relief from the blockage is possible without surgery. However, the cause of the blockage must be removed and the urinary system repaired. Surgery may be needed for long-term relief from the problem. ", "Causes": "Obstructive uropathy occurs when urine cannot drain through a ureter (a tube that carries urine from the kidneys to the bladder). Urine backs up into the kidney and causes it to become swollen (hydronephrosis).Obstructive uropathy can affect one or both kidneys. It can occur suddenly, or be a long-term problem.Common causes of obstructive uropathy include:Bladder stones, Kidney stones, Benign prostatic hyperplasia (enlarged prostate), Bladder or ureteral cancer, Colon cancer, Cervical cancer, Uterine cancer, Any cancer that spreads, Scar tissue that occurs inside or outside of the ureters, Problems with the nerves that supply the bladder. Rarely, the problem occurs during pregnancy. This condition is called idiopathic hydronephrosis of pregnancy.", "Prevention": "Obstructive uropathy can be prevented by treating disorders that can cause it."}, "Oleander poisoning": {"Symptoms": ["Blurred vision", "Vision disturbances, including halos", "Diarrhea", "Loss of appetite ", "Nausea", "Stomach pain", "Vomiting", "Irregular or slow heartbeat", "Low blood pressure", "Weakness", "Confusion", "Death", "Depression ", "Disorientation", "Dizziness", "Drowsiness", "Fainting", "Headache", "Lethargy", "Hives", "Rash"], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222.", "Prevention": "Do not touch or eat any plant with which you are not familiar. Wash your hands after working in the garden or walking in the woods."}, "Oxazepam overdose": {"Symptoms": ["\r\nBlurred vision ", "Double vision", "Confusion", "Coma", "Dizziness", "Drowsiness", "Fainting", "Nausea", "Rapid side-to-side movement of the eyes", "Rash", "Slurred speech", "Slowed breathing", "Staggering gait", "Stupor", "Tiredness", "Uncoordinated movement", "Weakness", "Rash"], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or a local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222."}, "Orbital cellulitis": {"description": "Orbital cellulitis is a sudden (acute) infection of the tissues around the eye. It affects the eyelids, eyebrow, and cheek.", "Possible Complications": "Complications may include:Cavernous sinus thrombosis (formation of a blood clot in a cavity at the base of the brain), Hearing loss, Septicemia or blood infection, Meningitis, Optic nerve damage and loss of vision. ", "Symptoms": ["\r\n Painful swelling of upper and lower eyelid, and possibly the eyebrow and cheek\r\n ", "Bulging eyes", "\r\n Decreased vision\r\n ", "Eye pain, especially when moving the eye\r\n ", "\r\n Fever, generally\u00a0102\u00b0 F or higher\r\n ", "\r\n General ill feeling\r\n ", "\r\n Painful or difficult eye movements\r\n ", "\r\n Shiny, red or purple eyelid\r\n "], "Exams and Tests": "Tests commonly done\u00a0include:CBC (complete blood count), Blood culture, Spinal tap in affected children who are very sick. Other tests may include: X-ray of the sinuses and surrounding area, CT scan or MRI of the sinuses and orbit, Culture of eye and nose drainage, Throat culture. ", "Treatment": "In ost cases, a\u00a0hospital stay is needed. Treatment most often includes antibiotics given through a vein. Surgery may be needed to drain the abscess, or relieve pressure in the space around the eye.An orbital cellulitis infection can get worse very quickly. A person with this condition must be checked every few hours. ", "Causes": "Orbital cellulitis is a dangerous infection, which can cause lasting problems. The most common cause of this condition in children is a sinus infection (often Haemophilus influenzae. The infection used to be more common in young children, under the age of 7. It is now rare due to the HiB (Haemophilus influenzae B) vaccine.The bacteria Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae, and beta-hemolytic streptococci may also cause orbital cellulitis.Orbital cellulitis infections in children may get worse very quickly and can lead to blindness. Medical care is needed right away.", "Prevention": "Getting scheduled HiB vaccine shots will prevent the infection in most children. Young children who share a household with a person who has this infection may need to take antibiotics to avoid getting sick. Prompt treatment of a sinus or dental infection may prevent it from spreading to the eyes. "}, "Obstructive sleep apnea": {"description": "With obstructive sleep apnea, your breathing pauses while you are asleep because your airway has become narrowed or partly blocked.", "Possible Complications": "Untreated obstructive sleep apnea may lead to or worsen heart disease, including:Heart arrhythmias, Heart failure, High blood pressure, Stroke. ", "Symptoms": ["The snoring often\u00a0becomes very loud.", "Snoring is interrupted by a long silent period while your breathing stops.", "The silence is followed by a loud snort and gasp, as you attempt to breathe.", "This pattern repeats throughout the night.", "Wake up unrefreshed in the morning ", "Feel sleepy or drowsy throughout the day ", "Act grumpy, impatient, or irritable", "Be forgetful", "Fall asleep while working, reading, or watching TV", "Feel sleepy while driving, or even fall asleep while driving", "Have hard-to-treat headaches", "Depression", "Hyperactive behavior, especially in children", "Difficult to treat high blood pressure", "Leg swelling (if severe)"], "Exams and Tests": "The health care provider will\u00a0take your medical history and do a\u00a0physical exam. Your provider will check your mouth, neck, and throat., You may be asked about daytime sleepiness, how well you sleep, and bedtime habits.. You may be give a\u00a0sleep study to confirm obstructive sleep apnea.Other tests that may be performed include:Arterial blood gases, Electrocardiogram (ECG), Echocardiogram, Thyroid function studies. ", "Treatment": "\r\n\r\nTreatment helps keep your airway open while you sleep so your breathing doesn\u2019t stop.Lifestyle changes may help relieve symptoms in people with mild sleep apnea:Avoid alcohol or medicines that make you sleepy before bedtime. They can make symptoms worse., Avoid sleeping on your back, Lose excess weight . Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) devices work best to treat obstructive sleep apnea in most people.You wear a mask over your nose while you sleep., The mask is connected by a hose to a small machine that sits at the side of your bed., The machine pumps air under pressure through the hose and mask and into your airway while you sleep. This helps keep your airway open.. It can take some time to get used to sleeping with CPAP therapy. Good follow-up and support from a sleep center can help you overcome any problems using CPAP.\u00a0 Dental devices may help some people.\u00a0You insert them into your mouth while you sleep to keep your jaw forward and the airway open.Other therapies may be available, but there's little evidence that they work. It's best to talk with a doctor who specializes in sleep problems before trying them.Surgery may be an option for some people. Often it's a last resort if other treatments didn't work and you have severe symptoms. Surgery may be used to:Remove extra tissue at the back of the throat., Correct problems with the structures in the face., Create an opening in the windpipe to bypass the blocked airway if there are physical problems., Remove the tonsils and adenoids. This often cures the condition in children. It does not seem to help most adults.. Surgery may not completely cure obstructive sleep apnea and may have long-term side effects.", "Causes": "When you sleep, all of the muscles in your body become more relaxed. This includes the muscles that help keep\u00a0your\u00a0throat open so air can flow into\u00a0your lungs.Normally, your throat remains open enough during sleep to let air pass by. However, some people have a narrow throat. When the muscles in their upper throat relax during sleep, the tissues close in and block the airway. This stop in breathing is called apnea.Loud snoring is a telltale symptom of sleep apnea. Snoring is caused by air squeezing through the narrowed or blocked airway. However, not everyone who snores has sleep apnea.Other factors also may increase your risk:A lower jaw that is short compared to\u00a0your upper jaw\r\n  , Certain shapes of the roof of your mouth (palate) or airway that cause\u00a0it to collapse more easily\r\n  , Large neck or collar size (17 inches or more in men and 16 inches or more in women)\r\n  , Large tongue, which may fall back and block the airway\r\n  , Obesity\r\n  , Large tonsils and adenoids in children that can block the airway\r\n  . Sleeping on your back can also cause your airway to become blocked or narrowed.Central sleep apnea is another sleep disorder during which breathing can stop. It occurs when the brain temporarily stops sending signals to the muscles that control breathing."}, "Ovarian hypofunction": {"Symptoms": ["Hot flashes", "Irregular or absent periods", "Mood swings", "Night sweats", "Vaginal dryness "], "Exams and Tests": "A blood test will be done to check your level of follicle-stimulating hormone, or FSH. FSH levels are higher than normal in women with ovarian hypofunction.Other blood tests may be done to look for autoimmune disorders or thyroid disease.Women with ovarian hypofunction who want to become pregnant may be concerned about their ability to conceive. Those younger than age 30 may have a chromosome analysis to check for problems. Older women who are close to menopause do not usually need this test.", "description": "Ovarian hypofunction is reduced function of the ovaries (including decreased production of hormones).", "Causes": "Ovarian hypofunction may be caused by genetic factors such as chromosome abnormalities. It may also occur with certain autoimmune disorders that disrupt the normal function of the ovaries.Chemotherapy and radiation therapy can also cause ovarian hypofunction.", "Treatment": "Estrogen therapy often helps relieve menopausal symptoms and prevents bone loss. However, it will not increase your chances of becoming pregnant. Fewer than 1 in 10 women with ovarian hypofunction will be able to get pregnant. The chance of getting pregnant increases to 50% when you use a fertilized donor egg (an egg from another woman)."}, "Oral hypoglycemics overdose": {"Symptoms": ["Agitation", "Apathy (lack of desire to do anything)", "Coma (decreased level of consciousness and lack of responsiveness)", "Convulsions", "Confusion", "Increased appetite", "Nausea", "Nervousness", "Rapid heartbeat", "Stupor", "Sweating", "Tingling of tongue and lips", "Tremor"], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222."}, "Olivopontocerebellar atrophy": {"description": "Olivopontocerebellar atrophy is a disease that causes areas deep in the brain, just above the spinal cord, to shrink.", "Possible Complications": "Choking, Infection from inhaling food into the lungs (aspiration pneumonia), Injury from falls, Nutrition problems due to difficulty swallowing. ", "Symptoms": ["Abnormal eye movements", "Abnormal movements", "Bowel or bladder problems", "Difficulty swallowing", "Light-headedness when standing", "Muscle spasms", "Muscle stiffness or rigidity", "Nerve damage (neuropathy)", "Tremor", "Sexual function problems "], "Exams and Tests": "A thorough medical and neurological examination, as well as a symptom and family history, are needed to make the diagnosis.There are genetic tests to look for the causes of some forms of the disorder. However, no specific test is available in many cases. An MRI of the brain may show changes in the size of affected brain structures, especially as the disease gets worse. But it is possible to have the disorder and have a normal MRI.Other tests may be done to rule out other conditions. These may include swallowing studies to see if a person can safely swallow food and liquid.", "Treatment": "There is no specific treatment or cure for this disease. Therapy is aimed at treating symptoms and preventing complications. This may include:Tremor medications, such as those used to treat Parkinson's disease, Speech and physical therapy, Techniques to prevent choking, Walking aids to help with balance and prevent falls. ", "Causes": "Olivopontocerebellar atrophy can be passed down through families (inherited form), or it may affect people without a known family history (sporadic form).Researchers have identified certain genes that are involved in the inherited form of this condition.The cause of olivopontocerebellar atrophy in those without a history of the disease is not known. The disease slowly gets worse (is progressive).This disease is slightly more common in men than in women. The average age of onset is 54 years old."}, "Osteonecrosis": {"description": "Osteonecrosis is bone death caused by poor blood supply. It is most common in the hip and shoulder, but can affect other large joints such as the knee, elbow, wrist and ankle.", "Possible Complications": "Advanced osteonecrosis can lead to osteoarthritis and permanent decreased mobility. Severe cases may require joint replacement.", "Symptoms": ["Pain in the joint that may increase over time and becomes severe if the bone collapses", "Pain that occurs even at rest", "Limited range of motion", "Groin pain, if the hip joint is affected", "Limping, if the condition occurs in or below the hips"], "Exams and Tests": "Your health care provider will do a complete physical exam to find out if you have any diseases or conditions that may affect your bones. You will be asked about your symptoms and medical history.When did the pain start?, Does the pain spread (radiate) anywhere?, Is the pain constant, or does it get better at night or at rest?, Have you noticed any difference in how much or how far you can move (your mobility)?, Do pain relievers help?, Are you taking any steroids now, or have you ever taken them?, Do you drink alcohol? If so, how much?, Do you or your family have any clotting disorders?. Be sure to let your health care provider know about any medicines or vitamin supplements you are taking, even over-the-counter medicine.After the exam, your health care provider will order one or more of the following tests:X-ray, MRI, Bone scan, CT scan. ", "Treatment": "If your health care provider knows the\u00a0cause for osteonecrosis, part of the treatment will be aimed at the underlying condition. For example, if a blood clotting disorder is the cause, treatment will consist, in part, of clot-dissolving medicine.If the condition is caught early, you will take pain relievers and limit use of the affected area. This may include using crutches if your hip, knee, or ankle is affected. You may need to do range-of-motion exercises. Nonsurgical treatment can often slow the progression of osteonecrosis, but most people will need surgery.Surgical options include:A bone graft, A bone graft along with its blood supply (vascularized bone graft), Cutting the bone and changing its alignment to relieve stress on the bone or joint (osteotomy), Total joint replacement, Removing part of the inside of the bone (core decompression) to relieve pressure and allow new blood vessels to form. ", "Causes": "Osteonecrosis occurs when part of the bone does not get blood and dies. After a while the bone can collapse. If\u00a0osteonecrosis is not treated, the joint deteriorates, leading to\u00a0severe arthritis.Osteonecrosis can be caused by disease, or a severe trauma, such as a\u00a0fracture or dislocation, that affects the blood supply to the bone. Osteonecrosis can also occur without trauma or disease. This is called idiopathic -- meaning it occurs without any known cause.The following can cause:Using oral or intravenous steroids, Excessive alcohol use, Sickle cell disease, Radiation therapy, Gaucher disease, Decompression sickness from a lot of deep sea diving, Dislocation or fractures around a joint, Clotting disorders. Some diseases that\u00a0are associated with the development of this condition include:Gout, Atherosclerosis, Diabetes. When occurs in the shoulder joint, it is usually due to long-term treatment with steroids or a history of trauma to the shoulder.Legg-Calv\u00e9-Perthes disease is a similar condition seen in children and adolescents.", "Prevention": "Many cases of osteonecrosis do not have a known cause, so prevention may not be possible. In some cases, you can reduce your risk by doing the following:Avoid drinking excessive amounts of alcohol., When possible, avoid high doses and long-term use of corticosteroids., Dive safely to avoid decompression sickness.. "}, "Orchitis": {"description": "Orchitis is swelling (inflammation) of one or both of the testicles.", "Possible Complications": "Some boys who get orchitis caused by mumps will have shrinking of the testicles (testicular atrophy).Orchitis may also cause infertility.Other potential complications include:Chronic epididymitis, Death of testicle tissue (testicular infarction), Fistula on the skin of the scrotum (cutaneous scrotal fistula), Scrotal abscess. Acute pain in the scrotum or testicles can be caused by twisting of the testicular blood vessels (torsion), which is a surgical emergency. If you have sudden pain in the scrotum or testicles, get immediate medical attention.", "Symptoms": ["Blood in the semen", "Discharge from penis", "Fever", "Groin pain", "Pain with intercourse or ejaculation", "Pain with urination (dysuria)", "Scrotal swelling", "Tender, swollen groin area on affected side", "Tender, swollen, heavy feeling in the testicle", "Testicle pain that is made worse by a bowel movement or straining"], "Exams and Tests": "A physical examination may show:Enlarged or tender prostate gland, Tender and enlarged lymph nodes in the groin (inguinal) area on the affected side, Tender and enlarged testicle on the affected side. Tests may include:Complete blood count (CBC), Testicular ultrasound, Tests to screen for chlamydia and gonorrhea (urethral smear), Urinalysis, Urine culture (clean catch) -- may need several samples, including initial stream, midstream, and after prostate massage. ", "Treatment": "Treatments may include:Antibiotics -- if the infection is caused by bacteria (in the case of gonorrhea or chlamydia, sexual partners must also be treated), Anti-inflammatory medications, Pain medications, Bed rest with the scrotum elevated and ice packs applied to the area. ", "Causes": "Orchitis may be caused by an infection from many different types of bacteria and viruses.The most common virus that causes orchitis is mumps. It most often occurs in boys after puberty. Orchitis usually develops 4 - 6 days after the mumps begins. Because of childhood vaccinations, mumps is now rare in the United States. Orchitis may also occur along with infections of the prostate or epididymis.Orchitis may be caused by sexually transmitted infection (STI) such as gonorrhea or chlamydia. The rate of sexually transmitted orchitis or epididymitis is higher in men ages 19 - 35.Risk factors for sexually transmitted orchitis include:High-risk sexual behaviors, Multiple sexual partners, Personal history of gonorrhea or another STD, Sexual partner with a diagnosed STD. Risk factors for orchitis not due to an STD include:Being older than age 45, Long-term use of a Foley catheter, Not being vaccinated against the mumps, Problems of the urinary tract that occurred at birth (congenital), Regular urinary tract infections, Surgery of the urinary tract (genitourinary surgery) . ", "Prevention": "Getting vaccinated against mumps will prevent mumps-associated orchitis. Safer sex behaviors, such as having only one partner at a time (monogamy) and condom use, will decrease the chance of developing orchitis as a result of a STI."}, "Organic brain syndrome": {"description": "Organic brain syndrome (OBS) is a general term that describes decreased mental function due to a medical disease other than a psychiatric illness. It is often used synonymously (but incorrectly) with dementia.", "Possible Complications": "People with OBS often lose the ability to interact with others or function on their own.", "Symptoms": ["Agitation", "Confusion", "Long-term loss of brain function (dementia)", "Severe, short-term loss of brain function (delirium)"], "Exams and Tests": "Tests depend on the disorder, but may include:\r\n  \r\n  Blood tests\r\n  \r\n  , Electroencephalogram (EEG)\r\n  \r\n  , Head CT scan, Head MRILumbar puncture (spinal tap). ", "Treatment": "Treatment depends on the disorder. Many of the disorders are treated mainly with rehabilitation and supportive care to assist the person in areas where brain function is lost.Medications may be needed to reduce aggressive behaviors that can occur with some of the conditions.", "Causes": "Listed below are disorders associated with OBS. Brain injury caused by traumaBleeding into the brain (intracerebral hemorrhage), Bleeding into the space around the brain (subarachnoid hemorrhage), Blood clot inside the skull causing pressure on brain (subdural hematoma), Concussion. Breathing conditions Low oxygen in the body (hypoxia), High carbon dioxide levels in the body (hypercapnia). Cardiovascular disordersDementia due to many strokes (multi-infarct dementia), Heart infections (endocarditis, myocarditis), Stroke, Transient ischemic attack (TIA). Degenerative disorders Alzheimer disease (also called senile dementia, Alzheimer's type), Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease, Diffuse Lewy Body disease, Huntington disease, Multiple sclerosis, Normal pressure hydrocephalus, Parkinson disease, Pick disease. Dementia due to metabolic causesKidney disease, Liver disease, Thyroid disease (hyperthyroidism\u00a0or hypothyroidism), Vitamin deficiency (B1, B12, or folate). Drug and alcohol-related conditions Alcohol withdrawal state, Intoxication from drug or alcohol use, Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome (a long-term effect of excessive alcohol consumption or malnutrition), Withdrawal from drugs (especially sedative-hypnotics and corticosteroids). Infections Any sudden onset (acute) or long-term (chronic) infection, Blood poisoning (septicemia), Brain infection (encephalitis), Meningitis (infection of the lining of the brain and spinal cord), Prion infections, such as mad cow disease, Late-stage syphilis. Complications of cancer can also lead to OBS.Other conditions that may mimic organic brain syndrome include:Depression, Neurosis, Psychosis. "}, "Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome": {"description": "Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) is a problem that is sometimes seen in women who take fertility medicines that stimulate egg production.", "Possible Complications": "In rare cases, OHSS can lead to life-threatening complications. These can include:Blood clots, Kidney failure, Severe electrolyte imbalance, Severe fluid buildup in the abdomen or chest . ", "Symptoms": ["Abdominal bloating", "Mild pain in the abdomen", "Weight gain ", "Rapid weight gain (more than 10 pounds in 3 to 5 days)", "Severe pain or swelling in the belly area", "Decreased urination", "Shortness of breath", "Nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea "], "Exams and Tests": "If you have a severe case of OHSS, your health care provider will need to monitor your symptoms carefully. You may be admitted to the hospital.Your weight and the size of your belly area (abdomen) will be measured. Tests that may be done include:Abdominal ultrasound or vaginal ultrasound, Chest x-ray, Complete blood count, Electrolytes panel, Liver function test, Tests to measure urine output . ", "Treatment": "Mild cases of OHSS usually don't need to be treated. The condition may actually improve the chances of becoming pregnant.The following steps can help you ease your discomfort: Get plenty of rest with your legs raised. This helps your body release the fluid. However, light activity every now and then is better than complete bed rest, unless your doctor tells you otherwise., Drink at least 10 to 12 glasses of fluid a day (especially drinks that contain electrolytes)., Avoid alcohol or caffeinated beverages (such as colas or coffee)., Avoid intense exercise and sexual intercourse. These activities can cause ovarian discomfort and may cause ovarian cysts to rupture or leak, or cause the ovaries to twist and cut off blood flow (ovarian torsion)., Take an over-the-counter pain reliever such as acetaminophen (Tylenol). . You should weigh yourself each day to make sure you are not putting on too much weight (5 or more pounds a day).In the rare case that you develop severe OHSS, you will probably need to go to a hospital. The providers there will give you fluids through a vein (intravenous fluids). They will also remove fluids that have collected in your body, and monitor your condition.", "Causes": "Normally, a woman produces one egg per month. Some women who have trouble getting pregnant may be given medicines to help them make and release eggs.If these medicines stimulate the ovaries too much, the ovaries can become very swollen. Fluid can leak into the belly and chest area. This is called ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS). OHSS occurs only after the eggs are released from the ovary (ovulation).You may be more likely to get OHSS if: Your doctor gives you a shot of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG)., You get more than one dose of hCG after ovulation., You become pregnant during this cycle. . OHSS rarely occurs in women who only take fertility drugs by mouth.OHSS affects 3 to 6% of women who go through in vitro fertilization.Other risk factors for OHSS include:Being younger than age 35, Having a very high estrogen level during fertility treatments, Having polycystic ovarian syndrome. ", "Prevention": "If you are getting injections of fertility medicines, you will need to have regular blood tests and pelvic ultrasounds to make sure that your ovaries aren't over-responding."}, "Opioid intoxication": {"Symptoms": ["Breathing problems - breathing may stop", "Extreme sleepiness or loss of alertness", "Small pupils"], "Exams and Tests": "\r\nTesting will depend on the physician\u2019s concern for additional medical problems.Blood chemistries and liver function tests such as CHEM-20, CBC (complete blood count) measures red and white blood cells, and platelets, which help blood to clot, Toxicology (poison) screening. A chest x-ray may be ordered to look for pneumonia, as well as an EKG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing) looking for evidence of heart rhythm disturbances or heart attack.", "description": "Opioid intoxication is a condition caused by use of opioid-based drugs, which include morphine, heroin, oxycodone, and the synthetic opioid narcotics. Prescription opioids are used to treat pain. Intoxication or overdose can lead to a loss of alertness, or unconsciousness.", "Causes": "In the United States, the most commonly abused opioids are heroin and methadone.", "Treatment": "The health care provider will measure and monitor the patient's vital signs, including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be treated as appropriate. The patient may receive:Breathing support, including supplemental oxygen, Tube placed through the mouth into the lungs (endotracheal intubation), Medicine called naloxone, which helps block the effect of the drug on the central nervous system (such medicine is called a narcotic antagonist). Since the effect of the narcotic antagonist is short-lived in most cases, the health care team will monitor the patient for 4 to 6 hours in the emergency department, although the optimal observation time after opioid intoxication has not been defined for most opioids. Those with moderate-to-severe intoxications will likely be admitted to the hospital for 24 to 48 hours.A psychiatric evaluation is needed for all exposures with suicidal intent."}, "Oil-based paint poisoning": {"Symptoms": ["Blurred or decreased vision", "Difficulty swallowing", "Eye and nose irritation (burning, tearing, redness, or runny nose) ", "Rapid heartbeat", "Cough", "Shallow breathing -- may also be rapid, slow, or painful ", "Coma", "Confusion", "Depression", "Dizziness", "Headache", "Irritability", "Light-headedness", "Nervousness", "Stupor (decreased level of consciousness)", "Unconsciousness", "Blisters", "Burning feeling", "Itchiness", "Numbness or tingling ", "Abdominal pain", "Diarrhea", "Nausea", "Vomiting "], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222."}, "Osteomyelitis": {"Symptoms": ["Bone pain", "Excessive sweating", "Fever and chills", "General discomfort, uneasiness, or ill feeling (malaise)", "Local swelling, redness, and warmth", "Pain at the site of infection", "Swelling of the ankles, feet, and legs"], "Exams and Tests": "A physical exam shows bone tenderness and possible swelling and redness in the area around the bone.Tests may include:Blood cultures, Bone biopsy (the sample is cultured and examined under a microscope), Bone scan, Bone x-ray, Complete blood count (CBC), C-reactive protein (CRP), Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), MRI of the bone, Needle aspiration of the area of the affected bones . ", "description": "Osteomyelitis is a bone infection that is caused by bacteria or other germs.", "Causes": "Bone infection is most often caused by bacteria. But it can also be caused by fungi or other germs. When a person has osteomyelitis:Bacteria or other germs may spread to a bone from infected skin, muscles, or tendons next to the bone. This may occur under a skin sore., The infection can start in another part of the body and spread to the bone through the blood., The infection can also start after bone surgery. This is more likely if the surgery is done after an injury or if metal rods or plates are placed in the bone.. In children, the long bones of the arms or legs are most often involved. In adults, the feet, spine bones (vertebrae), and hips (pelvis) are most commonly affected.Risk factors are:Diabetes, Hemodialysis, Poor blood supply, Recent injury, Use of injected illegal drugs . People who have had their spleen removed are also at higher risk of osteomyelitis.", "Treatment": "The goal of treatment is to get rid of the infection and reduce damage to the bone and surrounding tissues.Antibiotics are given to destroy the bacteria causing the infection: You may receive more than one antibiotic at a time., Antibiotics are taken for at least 4\u00a0to 6 weeks, often at home through an IV (intravenously, meaning through a vein). . Surgery may be needed to remove dead bone tissue if you have an infection that does not go away: If there are metal plates near the infection, they may need to be removed., The open space left by the removed bone tissue may be filled with bone graft or packing material. This promotes the growth of new bone tissue. . Infection that occurs after joint replacement may requiare surgery to remove the replaced joint and infected tissue in the area. A new prosthesis may be implanted in the same operation. More often, doctors wait until the infection has gone away.If you have diabetes, it will need to be well controlled. If there are problems with blood supply to the infected area, such as the foot, surgery to improve blood flow may be needed to get rid of the infection."}, "Oppositional defiant disorder": {"description": "Oppositional defiant disorder is a pattern of disobedient, hostile, and defiant behavior toward authority figures.", "Possible Complications": "In many cases, children with oppositional defiant disorder grow up to have conduct disorder as teenagers or adults. In some cases children may grow up to have antisocial personality disorder.", "Symptoms": ["Actively does not follow adults' requests", "Angry and resentful of others", "Argues with adults", "Blames others for own mistakes", "Has few or no friends or has lost friends", "Is in constant trouble in school", "Loses temper", "Is spiteful or seeks revenge", "Is touchy or easily annoyed"], "Exams and Tests": "Children with symptoms of this disorder should be evaluated by a psychiatrist or psychologist. In children and adolescents, the following conditions can cause similar behavior problems and should be considered as possibilities:Anxiety disorders, Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), Bipolar disorder, Depression, Learning disorders, Substance abuse disorders . ", "Treatment": "The best treatment for the child is to talk with a mental health professional in individual and possibly family therapy. The parents should also learn how to manage the child's behavior.Medications may also be helpful, especially if the behaviors occur as part of another condition (such as depression, childhood psychosis, or ADHD).", "Causes": "This disorder is more common in boys than in girls. Some studies have shown that it affects 20% of school-age children. However, most experts believe this figure is high due to changing definitions of normal childhood behavior, and possible racial, cultural, and gender biases.This behavior typically starts by age 8, but it may start as early as the preschool years. This disorder is thought to be caused by a combination of biological, psychological, and social factors.", "Prevention": "Be consistent about rules and consequences at home. Don't make punishments too harsh or inconsistent.Model the right behaviors for your child. Abuse and neglect increase the chances that this condition will occur."}, "Obesity hypoventilation syndrome (OHS)": {"description": "Obesity hypoventilation syndrome (OHS) is a condition in some obese people in which poor breathing leads to lower oxygen and higher carbon dioxide levels in the blood.", "Possible Complications": "Complications of OHS that have to do with a lack of sleep, such as:Depression, agitation, irritability, Increased risk of accidents or mistakes at work, Problems with intimacy and sex . OHS can also cause heart problems, such as:High blood pressure (hypertension), Right-sided heart failure (cor pulmonale), High blood pressure in the lungs (pulmonary hypertension) . ", "Symptoms": ["Poor sleep quality", "Sleep apnea", "Daytime sleepiness", "Depression", "Headaches"], "Exams and Tests": "People with OHS are usually very overweight. A physical exam may reveal:Bluish color in the lips, fingers, toes, or skin (cyanosis), Reddish skin, Signs of right-sided heart failure (cor pulmonale), such as swollen legs or feet, shortness of breath, or feeling tired after little effort , Signs of excessive sleepiness. Tests used to help diagnose and confirm OHS include:Arterial blood gas, Chest x-ray or CT scan to rule out other possible causes, Lung\u00a0function tests (pulmonary function tests), Sleep study (polysomnography). Doctors can tell OHS from obstructive sleep apnea because\u00a0a person with OHS has a\u00a0high carbon dioxide level in the blood when awake.", "Treatment": "Treatment involves breathing assistance using special machines (mechanical ventilation). Options include:Noninvasive mechanical ventilation such as continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) or bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP) through a mask that fits tightly over the nose or nose and mouth (mainly for sleep), Oxygen therapy, Breathing help through an opening in the neck (tracheostomy). . Treatment is started in the hospital. Other treatments are aimed at weight loss, which can reverse OHS.", "Causes": "The exact cause of OHS is not known.\u00a0Doctors believe OHS results from a defect in the brain's control over breathing. Excess weight against the chest wall also makes it harder for the muscles to draw in a deep breath and to breathe quickly enough. As a result, the blood contains too much carbon dioxide and not enough oxygen.", "Prevention": "Maintain a healthy weight and avoid obesity. Use\u00a0your CPAP or BiPAP treatment as your health care provider prescribed."}, "Oven cleaner poisoning": {"Symptoms": ["Breathing difficulty -- from breathing in fumes", "Throat swelling -- may also cause breathing difficulty", "Severe pain in the throat", "Severe pain or burning in the nose, eyes, ears, lips, or tongue", "Vision loss", "Abdominal pain", "Bloody stools", "Burns and possible holes of the esophagus (food pipe)", "Vomiting, possibly bloody", "Collapse", "Low blood pressure -- develops rapidly", "Severe change in blood acid level -- leads to organ damage", "Burns", "Holes in the skin or underlying tissues", "Irritation"], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222."}, "Optic neuritis": {"description": "Optic neuritis is inflammation of the optic nerve. It may cause sudden, reduced vision in the affected eye.", "Possible Complications": "Body-wide side effects from corticosteroids, Vision loss . About 1 in 5 patients with a first episode of optic neuritis will develop\u00a0nerve problems\u00a0elsewhere in the body, or will develop multiple sclerosis.", "Symptoms": ["Loss of vision in one eye over an hour or a few hours", "Changes in the way the pupil reacts to bright light", "Loss of color vision", "Pain when you move the eye "], "Exams and Tests": "A complete medical examination can help rule out related diseases. Tests may include:Color vision testing, MRI of the brain including special images of the optic nerve, Visual acuity testing, Visual field testing, Examination of the optic disc using indirect ophthalmoscopy. ", "Treatment": "Vision often returns to normal within 2\u00a0to 3 weeks with no treatment.Corticosteroids given through a vein (IV) or taken by mouth may speed up recovery.\u00a0The final vision after recovery is no different with or without steroids. Oral steroids may actually increase the chance of recurrence.Further tests may be needed to determine the cause of the neuritis. The condition causing the problem can then be treated.", "Causes": "The exact cause of optic neuritis is unknown.The optic nerve carries visual information from your eye to the brain. Sudden\u00a0inflammation of this nerve can cause the optic nerve to swell. This can result in injury to the nerve fibers and some or permanent loss of vision.Conditions that have been linked with optic neuritis include:Autoimmune diseases, including lupus, sarcoidosis, and Behcet's disease, Cryptococcosis, a fungal infection, Bacterial infections, including tuberculosis, syphilis, Lyme disease, and meningitis, Viral infections, including viral encephalitis, measles, rubella, chickenpox, herpes zoster, mumps, and mononucleosis, Respiratory infections, including Mycoplasma pneumonia and other common upper respiratory tract infections, Multiple sclerosis. "}, "Osteosarcoma": {"description": "Osteosarcoma is a cancerous (malignant) bone tumor that usually develops in teenagers. It occurs when a teen is growing rapidly.", "Possible Complications": "Limb removal, Spread of cancer to the lungs, Side effects of chemotherapy. ", "Symptoms": ["Bone fracture (may occur after a routine movement)", "Bone pain", "Limitation of motion", "Limping (if the tumor is in the leg)", "Pain when lifting (if the tumor is in the arm)", "Tenderness, swelling, or redness at the site of the tumor"], "Exams and Tests": "Biopsy (at time of surgery for diagnosis), Blood tests, Bone scan\u00a0to see if the cancer has spread to other bones, CT scan of the chest to see if the cancer has spread to the lungs, MRI scan, PET scan, X-ray . ", "Treatment": "Treatment usually starts after a biopsy of the tumor is done.Before\u00a0surgery to remove the tumor, chemotherapy is usually given. This can shrink the tumor and make surgery easier. It may also\u00a0kill any cancer cells that have spread to other parts of the body.Surgery is used after chemotherapy to remove any remaining tumor. In most cases, surgery can remove the tumor while saving the affected limb. This is called limb-sparing surgery. In rare cases, more\u00a0involved surgery (such as amputation)\u00a0is necessary.", "Causes": "Osteosarcoma is the most common bone cancer in children. Average age at diagnosis is 15. Boys and girls are just as likely to get this tumor until the late teens, when it occurs more often in boys. Osteosarcoma is also common in people over age 60. The cause is not known. In some cases, osteosarcoma runs in families. At least one gene has been linked to an increased risk. This gene is also associated with familial retinoblastoma. This is a cancer of the eye that occurs in children.Osteosarcoma tends to occur in the bones of the:Shin (near the knee), Thigh (near the knee), Upper arm (near the shoulder). Osteosarcoma occurs most commonly in large bones in the area of bone with the fastest growth rate. However, it can occur in any bone."}, "Osler-Weber-Rendu syndrome": {"description": "Osler-Weber-Rendu syndrome is an inherited disorder of the blood vessels that can cause excessive bleeding.", "Possible Complications": "Heart failure, High blood pressure in the lungs (pulmonary hypertension), Internal bleeding, Shortness of breath. ", "Symptoms": ["Frequent nosebleeds in children", "GI bleeding, including loss of blood in the stool or dark black stools", "Port wine stain", "Seizures or unexplained, small strokes (from bleeding into the brain)", "Shortness of breath"], "Exams and Tests": "An experienced health care provider can detect telangiectases during a physical examination. There is often a family history of hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia.Signs include:Abnormal blood vessels that bleed easily in the throat, bowels, or airways, AVM seen on chest x-ray, Decreased oxygen levels in the blood, Heart failure, Hepatomegaly, Iron deficiency anemia. Tests include:Blood gas tests, Blood tests, Echocardiogram, Endoscopy. Genetic testing\u00a0is available to look for changes in genes associated with this syndrome.", "Treatment": "Treatments may include:Surgery to treat bleeding in some areas, Electrocautery or laser surgery to treat frequent or heavy nosebleeds, Endovascular embolization to treat abnormal blood vessels in the brain and other parts of the body. Some patients respond to estrogen therapy, which can reduce bleeding episodes. Avoid taking blood-thinning medications. Iron may also be given if there is a lot of blood loss leading to anemia. Some drugs that affect blood vessel development are being studied as possible future treatments. \r\n Some patients may need to take antibiotics before having dental work or surgery. Ask your doctor what precautions you should take.", "Causes": "Osler-Weber-Rendu syndrome is a condition passed down through families. It results from a problem in one of\u00a0several genes. Scientists have identified some of the genes involved. They do not know exactly how the gene defects lead to problems seen in persons with this syndrome, but it involves proper development of blood vessels.", "Prevention": "Genetic counseling is recommended for couples who want to have children and who have a family history of hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia. Medical treatments can prevent certain types of strokes and heart failure."}, "Ovarian cysts": {"description": "This article is about cysts that form during your monthly menstrual cycle, called functional cysts. Functional cysts are not the same as cysts caused by cancer or other diseases.", "Possible Complications": "Complications have to do with the condition causing the cysts. Complications can occur with cysts that:Bleed, Break open , Show signs of changes that could be cancer, Twist. ", "Symptoms": ["Becomes large", "Bleeds", "Breaks open", "Interferes with the blood supply to the ovary", "Is bumped during sexual intercourse", "Is twisted or causes twisting (torsion) of the Fallopian tube ", "Bloating or swelling in the abdomen", "Pain during bowel movements", "Pain in the pelvis shortly before or after beginning a menstrual period", "Pain with intercourse or pelvic pain during movement", "Pelvic pain -- constant, dull aching", "Sudden and severe pelvic pain, often with nausea and vomiting, may be a sign of torsion or twisting of the ovary on its blood supply, or rupture of a cyst with internal bleeding "], "Exams and Tests": "Your doctor or nurse may discover a cyst during a pelvic exam, or when you have an ultrasound test for another reason.Ultrasound may be done to diagnose a cyst. Your doctor or nurse may want to check you again in 6 - 8 weeks to make sure it is gone.Other imaging tests that may be done when needed include:CT scan, Doppler flow studies, MRI. The following blood tests may be done:Ca-125 test, to look for possible cancer if you have an abnormal ultrasound or are in or past menopause\r\n  , \r\n  Hormone levels (such as LH, FSH, estradiol, and testosterone)\r\n  , Pregnancy test (Serum HCG) . ", "Treatment": "Functional ovarian cysts often do not need treatment. They often go away on their own within 8 - 12 weeks.If you have frequent cysts, your doctor or nurse may prescribe birth control pills (oral contraceptives). These medicines may reduce the risk of new ovarian cysts. Birth control pills do not decrease the size of current cysts.Surgery to remove the cyst or ovary may be needed to make sure that it is not ovarian cancer. Surgery is more likely to be needed for:Complex ovarian cysts that do not go away, Cysts that are causing symptoms and do not go away, Simple ovarian cysts that are larger than 10 centimeters, Women who are near menopause or past menopause. Types of surgery for ovarian cysts include:Exploratory laparotomy, Pelvic laparoscopy to remove the cyst or the ovary. You may need other treatments if you have polycystic ovary syndrome or another disorder that can cause cysts.", "Causes": "Each month during your menstrual cycle, a follicle grows on your ovary. The follicle is where an egg is developing. Most months, an egg is released from this follicle, called ovulation. If the follicle fails to break open and release an egg, the fluid stays in the follicle and forms a cyst. This is called a follicular cyst.Another type of cyst occurs after an egg has been released from a follicle. This is called a corpus luteum cyst. This type of cyst often contains a small amount of blood.Ovarian cysts are more common in the childbearing years between puberty and menopause. The condition is less common after menopause.Taking fertility drugs can cause a condition in which multiple large cysts are formed on the ovaries. This is called ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome. The cysts most often go away after a woman's period, or after a pregnancy. Functional ovarian cysts are not the same as ovarian tumors, or cysts due to hormone-related conditions such as polycystic ovary syndrome.", "Prevention": "If you are not trying to get pregnant and you often get functional cysts, you can prevent them by taking hormone drugs (such as birth control pills). These medicines prevent follicles from growing."}, "Obsessive-compulsive personality disorder": {"description": "Obsessive-compulsive personality disorder (OCPD) is a mental health\u00a0condition in which a person is preoccupied with rules, orderliness, and control.", "Possible Complications": "Anxiety, Depression, Difficulty moving forward in career situations, Relationship difficulties. ", "Symptoms": ["Over-devotion to work", "Not being able\u00a0to throw things away, even when the objects have no value", "Lack of flexibility", "Lack of generosity", "Not wanting to allow other people to do things", "Not willing to show affection", "Preoccupation with details, rules, and lists"], "Exams and Tests": "OCPD is diagnosed based on a psychological evaluation\u00a0that assesses\u00a0the history and severity of the symptoms.\u00a0", "Treatment": "Medicines may help reduce anxiety and depression from OCPD. Talk therapy is thought to be the most effective treatment for OCPD. In some cases, medicines combined with talk therapy\u00a0is more effective than either treatment alone.", "Causes": "OCPD tends to occur in families, so genes may be involved. A person's childhood and environment may also play roles.This\u00a0disorder can affect both men and women. It most often occurs in men."}, "Ovarian cancer": {"description": "Ovarian cancer is cancer that starts in the ovaries. The ovaries are the female reproductive organs that produce eggs.", "Symptoms": ["Bloating or swollen belly area", "Difficulty eating or feeling full quickly (early satiety)", "Pelvic or lower abdominal pain; the area may feel \"heavy\" (pelvic heaviness) ", "Abnormal menstrual cycles", "Digestive symptoms such as no appetite,\u00a0indigestion, nausea and vomiting, constipation, increased gas ", "Back pain for unknown reasons\u00a0that worsens over time ", "Vaginal bleeding that occurs between periods", "Weight gain or loss ", "Excessive hair growth that is coarse and dark", "Sudden urge to urinate", "Needing to urinate more often than usual (increased urinary frequency or urgency ) "], "Exams and Tests": "A physical exam is often normal. With have advanced ovarian cancer,\u00a0the doctor\u00a0may\u00a0find a swollen abdomen often due to\u00a0collection fluid\u00a0(called ascites). A pelvic examination may reveal an ovarian or abdominal mass.A CA-125 blood test is not considered a good screening test for ovarian cancer. But it may be done if a woman has:Symptoms of ovarian cancer, Already been diagnosed with ovarian cancer to determine how well treatment is working . Other tests that may be done include:Complete blood count and blood chemistry, Pregnancy test (serum HCG), CT or MRI of the pelvis or abdomen, Ultrasound of the pelvis . Surgery such as a pelvic laparoscopy or exploratory laparotomy is often done to\u00a0find the cause of\u00a0symptoms. A biopsy will be done to help make the diagnosis.No lab or imaging test has ever been shown to be able to screen for or diagnose ovarian cancer in its early stages, so no standard screening tests are recommended at this time.", "Causes": "Ovarian cancer is the fifth most common cancer among women. It causes more deaths than any other type of female reproductive cancer.The cause is unknown.Risk\u00a0of developing ovarian cancer include any of the following: The\u00a0fewer children a woman has and the\u00a0later in life she gives birth, the\u00a0higher her risk\u00a0of ovarian cancer., Women who have had breast cancer or have a family history of breast or ovarian cancer have an increased risk\u00a0of ovarian cancer (due to defect in the BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes)., Women who take estrogen replacement only (not with progesterone) for 5 years or more\u00a0may have a high risk of ovarian cancer. Birth control pills, though, decrease the risk of ovarian cancer., Fertility drugs probably do not increase the risk\u00a0of ovarian cancer., Older women are at highest risk\u00a0of developing ovarian cancer. Most deaths from ovarian cancer occur in women age 55 and older. . ", "Prevention": "There are no standard recommendations for screening for ovarian cancer. Pelvic ultrasound or blood tests, such as the CA-125 has not been found to be effective and is not recommended.BRCA gene testing may be done in women at high risk for ovarian cancer.Removing the ovaries and tubes in women who have a\u00a0proven problem in the BRCA1 or\u00a0BRCA2 gene may reduce the risk of developing ovarian cancer.\u00a0But ovarian cancer may still develop in other areas of the pelvis.", "Treatment": "Surgery is used to treat all stages of ovarian cancer. For early stages,\u00a0surgery may be the only treatment. Surgery can\u00a0involve removing both ovaries and fallopian tubes, the uterus, or other structures in the belly or pelvis.Chemotherapy is used after surgery to treat any cancer that remains. Chemotherapy can also be used if the cancer comes back (relapses). Radiation therapy is rarely used\u00a0to treat\u00a0ovarian cancer in the United States.After surgery and chemotherapy, follow instructions about how often you should see your doctor and the tests you should have."}, "Oral cancer": {"description": "Oral cancer is cancer that starts in the mouth.", "Possible Complications": "Complications of radiation therapy, including dry mouth and difficulty swallowing, Disfigurement of the face, head, and neck after surgery, Other spread (metastasis) of the cancer. ", "Symptoms": ["A deep, hard-edged crack in the tissue", "Pale, dark, or discolored", "On the tongue, lip, or other area of the mouth", "Painless at first, then a burning sensation or pain when the tumor is advanced", "Chewing problems", "Mouth sores that may bleed", "Pain with swallowing", "Speech difficulties", "Swallowing difficulty", "Swollen lymph nodes in the neck", "Tongue problems", "Weight loss "], "Exams and Tests": "Your doctor or dentist will examine your mouth area. The exam may show:A sore on the lip, tongue, or other area of the mouth, An ulcer or bleeding. Tests used to confirm oral cancer include:Gum biopsy, Tongue biopsy. X-rays and CT, MRI and PET scans may be done to determine if the cancer has spread.", "Treatment": "Surgery to remove the tumor is usually recommended if the tumor is small enough. Surgery may be used together with radiation therapy and chemotherapy for larger tumors. Other treatments may include speech therapy or other therapy to improve movement, chewing, swallowing, and speech.", "Causes": "Oral cancer most commonly involves the lips or the tongue. It may also occur on the:Cheek lining, Floor of the mouth, Gums (gingiva), Roof of the mouth (palate). Most oral cancers are a type called squamous cell carcinoma. These cancers tend to spread quickly.Smoking and other tobacco use are linked to most cases of oral cancer. Heavy alcohol use also increases the risk of oral cancer.Other factors that may increase the risk of oral cancer include:Chronic irritation (such as from rough teeth, dentures, or fillings), Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection (same virus that causes genital warts), Taking medicines that weaken the immune system (immunosuppressants), Poor dental and oral hygiene. Some oral cancers begin as a white plaque (leukoplakia) or as a mouth ulcer.Men get oral cancer twice as often as women do, particularly men older than 40.", "Prevention": "Oral cancer may be prevented by:Avoiding smoking or other tobacco use, Having dental problems corrected, Limiting or avoiding alcohol use, Visiting the dentist regularly and practicing good oral hygiene. "}, "Oxalic acid poisoning": {"Symptoms": ["Abdominal pain", "Burns and blisters where the acid contacted the skin", "Collapse", "Convulsions", "Kidney problems", "Low blood pressure", "Mouth pain", "Shock", "Throat pain", "Tremors", "Vomiting", "Weak pulse"], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or a local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222."}, "Optic glioma": {"description": "An optic glioma may also grow along with a hypothalamic glioma.", "Possible Complications": "Decreased vision, Blindness. ", "Symptoms": ["Involuntary eyeball movement", "Outward bulging of one or both eyes\u00a0", "Squinting", "Vision loss in one or both eyes that\u00a0starts with the\u00a0loss of peripheral vision and eventually leads to blindness", "Daytime sleeping", "Decreased memory and brain function", "Delayed growth", "Loss of appetite and body fat "], "Exams and Tests": "A brain and nervous system (neurologic) examination reveals a loss of vision in one or both eyes. There may be changes in the optic nerve, including swelling or scarring of the nerve, or paleness and damage to the optic disc.The tumor may extend into deeper parts of the brain. There may be signs of increased pressure in the brain (intracranial pressure). There may be signs of neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1).The following tests may be performed:Cerebral angiography, Examination of tissue removed from the tumor during surgery or CT scan-guided biopsy\u00a0to confirm the tumor type, Head CT scan or MRI of the head, Visual field tests. ", "Treatment": "Treatment varies with the size of the tumor and the general health of the person. The goal may be to cure the disorder, relieve symptoms, or improve vision and comfort.Surgery to remove the tumor may cure some optic gliomas. Partial removal to reduce the\u00a0size of the tumor can be done in many cases. This will keep the tumor from damaging normal brain tissue around it.Radiation therapy may be\u00a0recommended in some cases where the tumor is larger and surgery is not possible. In some cases, radiation therapy may be delayed because the tumor is slow growing.Corticosteroids may be prescribed to reduce swelling and inflammation during radiation therapy, or if symptoms return.Chemotherapy may be used in some children. Chemotherapy may be especially useful when the tumor extends into the hypothalamus.", "Causes": "Optic gliomas are rare. The cause of optic gliomas is unknown. Most optic gliomas are slow-growing and noncancerous (benign) and occur in children, almost always before age 20.There is a strong association between optic glioma and neurofibromatosis Type 1 (NF1).", "Prevention": "Genetic counseling may be advised for people with neurofibromatosis-1. Regular eye exams may allow early diagnosis of these tumors before they cause symptoms."}, "Osteogenesis imperfecta": {"description": "Osteogenesis imperfecta is a condition causing extremely fragile bones.", "Possible Complications": "Complications are largely based on the type of OI present. They are often directly related to the problems with weak bones and multiple fractures.Complications may include:Hearing loss (common in type I and type III), Heart failure (type II), Respiratory problems and pneumonias due to chest wall deformities, Spinal cord or brain stem problems, Permanent deformity. ", "Symptoms": ["Blue tint to the whites of their eyes (blue sclera)", "Multiple bone fractures", "Early hearing loss (deafness)", "Bowed legs and arms", "Kyphosis", "Scoliosis (S-curve spine)"], "Exams and Tests": "OI is usually suspected in children whose bones break with very little force. A physical examination may show that the whites of their eyes have a blue tint.A definitive diagnosis may be made using a skin punch biopsy. Family members may be given a DNA blood test.If there is a family history of OI, chorionic villus sampling  may be done during pregnancy to determine if the baby has the condition. However, because so many different mutations can cause OI, some forms cannot be diagnosed with a genetic test.The severe form of type II osteogenesis imperfecta can be seen on ultrasound when the fetus is as young as 16 weeks.", "Treatment": "There is not yet a cure for this disease. However, specific therapies can reduce the pain and complications associated with OI.Bisphosphonates are drugs that have been used to treat osteoporosis. They have proven to be very valuable in the treatment of OI symptoms, particularly in children. These drugs can increase the strength and density of bone in persons with OI. They have been shown to greatly reduce bone pain and fracture rate (especially in the bones of the spine).Low impact exercises, such as swimming, keep muscles strong and help maintain strong bones. Such exercise can be very beneficial for persons with OI and should be encouraged.In more severe cases, surgery to place metal rods into the long bones of the legs may be considered to strengthen the bone and reduce the risk of fracture. Bracing can also be helpful for some people.Reconstructive surgery may be needed to correct any deformities. Such treatment is important because deformities (such as bowed legs or a spinal problem) can significantly affect a person's ability to move or walk.Regardless of treatment, fractures will occur. Most fractures heal quickly. Time in a cast should be limited since bone loss (disuse osteoporosis) may occur when you do not use a part of your body for a period of time.Many children with OI develop body image problems as they enter their teenage years. A social worker or psychologist can help them adapt to life with OI.", "Causes": "Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a congenital disease, meaning it is present at birth. It is frequently caused by a defect in the gene that produces type 1 collagen, an important building block of bone. There are many different defects that can affect this gene. The severity of OI depends on the specific gene defect.OI is an autosomal dominant disease. That means if you have one copy of the gene, you will have the disease. Most cases of OI are inherited from a parent, although some cases are the result of new genetic mutations.A person with OI has a 50% chance of passing on the gene and the disease to their children.", "Prevention": "Genetic counseling is recommended for couples considering pregnancy if there is a personal or family history of this condition."}, "Ovarian overproduction of androgens": {"description": "Ovarian overproduction of androgens is a condition in which the ovaries make too much testosterone. This leads to the development of male characteristics in a woman. Other hormones, called androgens, from other parts of the body can also cause male characteristics to develop in women.", "Possible Complications": "Infertility and complications during pregnancy may occur.Women with polycystic ovary syndrome may be at increased risk for:Diabetes, High blood pressure, High cholesterol, Obesity, Uterine cancer. ", "Symptoms": ["Acne", "Changes in female body shape", "Decrease in breast size", "Increase in body hair in a male pattern, such as on the face, chin, and abdomen", "Lack of menstrual periods (amenorrhea)", "Oily skin ", "Increase in the size of the clitoris", "Deepening of the voice", "Increase in muscle mass", "Thinning hair and hair loss at the front of the scalp on both sides of the head"], "Exams and Tests": "Your health care provider will perform a physical exam. Any blood and imaging tests ordered will depend on your ;symptoms, but may include:\r\n17-hydroxyprogesterone test, ACTH test, CT scan, DHEA blood test, Glucose test, Insulin test, Pelvic ultrasound, Prolactin test (if periods come less often or not at all), Testosterone test, Total cholesterol test, TSH test (if there is hair loss) . ", "Treatment": "Treatment depends on the problem that is causing the increased androgen production. Medications can be given to decrease hair production in women with excess body hair, or to regulate menstrual cycles. In some cases, surgery may be needed to remove an ovarian or adrenal tumor.", "Causes": "In healthy women, the ovaries and adrenal glands produce about 40\u00a0to 50% of the body's testosterone. Tumors of the ovaries and polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) can both cause\u00a0too much\u00a0androgen production.Cushing's disease is a problem with the pituitary gland that\u00a0leads to\u00a0excess amounts of corticosteroids. Corticosteroids cause masculine body changes in women. Tumors in the adrenal glands can also cause too much production of androgens and can lead to male body characteristics in women.", "Prevention": "There is no known prevention. Maintaining a normal weight through a healthy diet and regular exercise can reduce your chances of any long-term complications."}}