{"Intestinal obstruction": {"description": "Intestinal obstruction is a partial or complete blockage of the bowel. The contents of the intestine cannot pass through it.", "Possible Complications": "Complications may include or may lead to:Electrolyte (blood chemical and mineral) imbalances, Dehydration, Hole (perforation) in the intestine, Infection, Jaundice (yellowing of the skin and eyes) . If the obstruction blocks the blood supply to the intestine, it may cause infection and tissue death (gangrene). Risks for tissue death are related to the cause of the blockage and how long it has been present. Hernias, volvulus, and intussusception carry a higher gangrene risk. In a newborn, paralytic ileus that destroys the bowel wall (necrotizing enterocolitis) is a life-threatening condition. It may lead to blood and lung infections.", "Symptoms": ["Abdominal swelling (distention)", "Abdominal fullness, gas", "Abdominal pain and cramping", "Breath odor", "Constipation", "Diarrhea", "Inability to pass gas\r\n  ", "Vomiting"], "Exams and Tests": "During a physical exam, the health care provider may find bloating, tenderness, or hernias in the abdomen. Tests that show obstruction include:Abdominal CT scan, Abdominal x-ray, Barium enema, Upper GI and small bowel series. ", "Treatment": "Treatment involves placing a tube through the nose into the stomach or intestine. This is to help relieve abdominal swelling (distention) and vomiting. Volvulus of the large bowel may be treated by passing a tube into the rectum.Surgery may be needed to relieve the obstruction if the tube does not relieve the symptoms. It may also be needed if there are signs of tissue death.", "Prevention": "Prevention depends on the cause. Treating conditions, such as tumors and hernias that can lead to a blockage, may reduce your risk. Some causes of obstruction cannot be prevented.", "Causes": "Obstruction of the bowel may due to:A mechanical cause, which means something is in the way, Ileus, a condition in which the bowel does not\u00a0work correctly, but there is no structural problem causing it. Paralytic ileus, also called pseudo-obstruction, is one of the major causes of intestinal obstruction in infants and children. Causes of paralytic ileus may include:Bacteria or viruses that cause intestinal infections (gastroenteritis), Chemical, electrolyte, or mineral imbalances (such as decreased potassium levels), Complications of abdominal surgery, Decreased blood supply to the intestines (mesenteric ischemia), Infections inside the abdomen, such as appendicitis, Kidney or lung disease, Use of certain medicines, especially narcotics . Mechanical causes of intestinal obstruction may include:Adhesions or scar tissue that forms after surgery, Foreign bodies (objects that are swallowed and block the intestines), Gallstones (rare), Hernias, Impacted stool, Intussusception (telescoping of one segment of bowel into another), Tumors blocking the intestines, Volvulus (twisted intestine) . "}, "Illness anxiety disorder": {"description": "Illness anxiety disorder\u00a0is a\u00a0preoccupation that physical symptoms are signs of a serious illness, even when there is no medical evidence to support the presence of an illness.", "Possible Complications": "Complications from invasive testing to look for the cause of symptoms, Dependence on pain relievers or sedatives, Depression and anxiety or panic disorder, Lost time from work due to frequent appointments with health care providers. ", "Symptoms": [], "Exams and Tests": "The doctor or nurse will examine you and may order tests to look for illness. A psychiatric evaluation may be done to look for other related disorders.", "Treatment": "It is important to have a supportive relationship with a health care provider. You should have only one primary care provider to avoid having too many tests and procedures.The health care provider should tell you that you do not have a disease, and continued medical follow-up will help control the symptoms. People with\u00a0IAD feel real distress, so their symptoms should not be denied or challenged.Antidepressants such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) can help reduce the worry and physical symptoms of this disorder.Finding a mental health provider who has experience treating this disorder with talk therapy (psychotherapy) can be helpful. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), a kind of talk therapy, can help you deal with your symptoms. During therapy, you will learn:To recognize what seems to make the symptoms worse, To develop methods of coping with the symptoms, To keep yourself more active, even if you still have symptoms. ", "Causes": "People with anxiety illness disorder (IAD) are overly focused on, and always thinking about,\u00a0their physical health. They have an unrealistic fear of having or developing a serious disease. This disorder occurs equally in men and women.The way people with\u00a0IAD think about their physical symptoms can make them more likely to have this condition. As they focus on and worry about physical sensations, a cycle of symptoms and worry begins, which can be hard to stop.It is important to realize that people with\u00a0IAD do not purposely create these symptoms. They are unable to control the symptoms.People who have a history of physical or sexual abuse are more likely to have IAD.\u00a0But this does not mean that every person with IAD has a history of abuse."}, "Insecticide poisoning": {"Symptoms": ["Breathing difficulty ", "Coma (decreased level of consciousness and lack of responsiveness)", "Convulsions", "Irritation", "Redness or swelling", "Increased urination ", "Increased salivation (drooling)", "Increased tearing", "Small pupils ", "Abdominal cramps", "Diarrhea", "Loss of appetite", "Nausea", "Vomiting ", "Slow heart rate ", "Breathing difficulty ", "Anxiety", "Coma (decreased level of consciousness and lack of responsiveness)", "Convulsions", "Dizziness", "Headache", "Weakness", "Blue lips and fingernails", "Abdominal pain", "Diarrhea", "Nausea", "Vomiting ", "Muscle spasms"], "description": "See also:"}, "Ischemic ulcers - self-care": {"Symptoms": ["Dark red, yellow, gray, or black sores.", "Raised edges around the wound (looks punched out).", "No bleeding.", "Deep wound through which tendons may show through.", "Skin on the leg appears shiny, tight, dry, and hairless.", "Dangling the leg down off the side of a bed or chair causes the leg to turn red.", "When you raise the leg it turns pale and cool to touch.", "Leg pain, often at night. Pain may go away when the leg is dangled down.", "Ulcer may or may not be painful.", "Wounds may appear on legs, ankles, toes, and between toes. "], "Prevention": "If you are at risk for ischemic ulcers, taking these steps may help prevent problems.Check your feet and legs every day. Check the tops and bottoms, ankles, heels, and between your toes. Look for changes in color and red or sore areas., Wear shoes that fit properly and don't rub or put pressure on your feet. Wear socks that fit. Socks that are too big can fold up in your shoes and cause a sore., Don't cross your legs when sitting. This can cut off blood flow to your legs. Try not to sit or stand too long in one position., Protect your feet from the cold., Do not walk barefoot. Protect your feet from injury., Don't wear compression stockings or wraps unless told to by your doctor. These may restrict blood flow. . Certain lifestyle changes can help prevent ischemic ulcers. If you have a wound, taking these steps can improve blood flow and aid healing.Quit smoking. Smoking can lead to clogged arteries., If you have diabetes, keep your blood sugar levels under control. This will help you heal faster., Exercise as much as you can. Staying active can help with blood flow., Eat a healthy diet and get plenty of sleep at night. Staying healthy will help wounds heal., Lose weight if you are overweight., Manage your blood pressure and cholesterol levels. . ", "description": "Ischemic ulcers (wounds) can occur when there is poor blood flow in your legs. Poor blood flow causes cells to die and damages tissue. Most ischemic ulcers occur on the feet and legs. These types of wounds can be slow to heal.", "Causes": "Clogged arteries (atherosclerosis) are the most common cause of ischemic ulcers.Clogged arteries prevent a healthy supply of blood from flowing to the legs. This means that the tissues in your legs don't get enough nutrients and oxygen., The lack of nutrients causes cells to die, damaging the tissue., Damaged tissue that does not get enough blood flow also tends to heal more slowly. . Conditions where the skin becomes inflamed and fluid builds up in the legs can also cause ischemic ulcers.Often people with poor blood flow also have nerve damage or foot ulcers from diabetes. Nerve damage makes it harder to feel an area in the shoe that rubs and causes a sore. Once a sore forms, lack of blood flow makes it harder for the sore to heal."}, "Interstitial lung disease - adults - discharge": {"description": "You received oxygen treatment, and you may need to keep using oxygen when you go home. Your doctor may have given you a new medicine to treat your lungs."}, "Isolated sleep paralysis": {"Symptoms": [], "Exams and Tests": "If you do not have other symptoms of narcolepsy, there is usually no need to\u00a0have\u00a0sleep studies\u00a0done.", "description": "Isolated sleep paralysis is a type of paralysis that occurs with a sleep disorder. Sleep paralysis is the inability to perform voluntary muscle movements during sleep.", "Treatment": "\r\n \r\nIn most cases, isolated sleep paralysis occurs so rarely that treatment is not needed. If the cause is known, for example due to lack of sleep, correcting the cause, such as getting enough sleep, often resolves the condition.In persons with mental health conditions, medication and behavioral therapy (talk therapy) to help treat the mental condition may also resolve sleep paralysis."}, "Intrauterine growth restriction": {"description": "Intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) refers to the poor growth of a baby while in the mother's womb during pregnancy.", "Possible Complications": "IUGR increases the risk of pregnancy and newborn complications, depending on the cause. Babies whose growth is restricted often become more stressed during labor and\u00a0need C-section delivery. ", "Symptoms": [], "Exams and Tests": "Intrauterine growth restriction may be suspected if the size of the pregnant woman's uterus is small. The condition is usually confirmed by ultrasound.Further tests may be needed to screen for infection or genetic problems if IUGR is suspected.", "Treatment": "IUGR increases the risk that the baby will die inside the womb before birth. If your obstetrician thinks you might have IUGR, you will be closely monitored with regular pregnancy ultrasounds to measure the baby's growth, movements, blood flow, and fluid around the baby.Nonstress testing will also be done. This involves simply listening to the baby's heart rate over a 20 to 30 minute time period. Depending on the results of these tests, your baby may need to be delivered early.", "Prevention": "Following these guidelines will help prevent IUGR:Do not drink alcohol, smoke, or use recreational drugs., Eat healthy foods., Get regular prenatal care., If you have a chronic medical condition or you take prescribed medicines regularly, see your health care provider before you get pregnant. This can help reduce the effects your medical condition could have on your pregnancy and the baby. . ", "Causes": "Many different things can lead to intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR). An unborn baby may not get enough oxygen and nutrition from the placenta during pregnancy because of:High altitudes, Multiple pregnancy (twins, triplets, etc.), Placenta problems, Preeclampsia or eclampsia. Problems at birth (congenital abnormalities)\u00a0or chromosome problems are often associated with below-normal weight. Infections during pregnancy can also affect the weight of the developing baby. These include:Cytomegalovirus, Rubella, Syphilis, Toxoplasmosis. Risk factors in the mother that may contribute to IUGR include:Alcohol abuse, Smoking, Drug addiction, Clotting disorders, High blood pressure or heart disease, Kidney disease, Poor nutrition . If the mother is small, it may be normal for her baby to be small, but this is not due to IUGR.Depending on the cause of IUGR, the developing baby may be small all over. Or, the baby's head may be normal size while the rest of the body is small. "}, "Intestinal or bowel obstruction - discharge ": {"description": "\r\n If a tumor or cancer caused the blockage in your intestine, the surgeon may have removed it. Or, it may have been bypassed by routing your intestine around it."}, "Inguinal hernia repair": {"description": "During hernia repair, this bulging tissue is pushed back in. Your abdominal wall is strengthened and supported with sutures (stitches), and sometimes mesh."}, "Intersex": {"Symptoms": ["Ambiguous genitalia at birth", "Micropenis", "Clitoromegaly (an enlarged clitoris)", "Partial labial fusion", "Apparently undescended testes (which may turn out to be ovaries) in boys", "Labial or inguinal (groin) masses -- which may turn out to be testes -- in girls", "Hypospadias [the opening of the penis is somewhere other than at the tip; in females, the urethra (urine canal) opens into the vagina]", "Otherwise unusual-appearing genitalia at birth", "Electrolyte abnormalities", "Delayed or absent puberty", "Unexpected changes at puberty"], "Exams and Tests": "Chromosome analysis, Hormone levels (for example, testosterone level), Hormone stimulation tests, Electrolyte tests, Specific molecular testing, Endoscopic examination (to verify the absence or presence of a vagina or cervix), Ultrasound or MRI \u00a0to evaluate whether internal sex organs are present (for example, a uterus). ", "description": "Although the older terms are still included in this article for reference, they have been replaced by most experts (and patients and families) because they are misleading, confusing, and insensitive. Increasingly this group of conditions is being called disorders of sex development (DSDs).", "Causes": "Intersex can be divided into four categories:46, XX Intersex, 46, XY Intersex, True Gonadal Intersex, Complex or Undetermined Intersex. Each one is discussed in more detail below. Note: In many kids the cause of intersex may remain undetermined, even with modern diagnostic techniques.46, XX Intersex. The person has the chromosomes of a woman, the ovaries of a woman, but external (outside) genitals that appear male. This usually is the result of a female fetus having been exposed to excess male hormones before birth. The labia (\"lips\" or folds of skin of the external female genitals) fuse, and the clitoris enlarges to appear like a penis. Usually this person has a normal uterus and Fallopian tubes. This condition is also called 46, XX with virilization. It used to be called female pseudohermaphroditism. There are several possible causes:Congenital adrenal hyperplasia (the most common cause)., Male hormones (such as testosterone) taken or encountered by the mother during pregnancy., Male hormone-producing tumors in the mother. These are most often ovarian tumors. Mothers who have children with 46, XX intersex should be checked unless there is another clear cause., Aromatase deficiency. This one may not be noticeable until puberty. Aromatase is an enzyme that normally converts male hormones to female hormones. Too much aromatase activity can lead to excess estrogen (female hormone); too little to 46, XX intersex. At puberty, these XX children, who had been raised as girls, may begin to take on male characteristics.. 46, XY Intersex. The person has the chromosomes of a man, but the external genitals are incompletely formed, ambiguous, or clearly female. Internally, testes may be normal, malformed, or absent. This condition is also called 46, XY with undervirilization. It used to be called male pseudohermaphroditism. Formation of normal male external genitals depends on the appropriate balance between male and female hormones; therefore, it requires the adequate production and function of male hormones. 46, XY intersex has many possible causes:Problems with the testes: The testes normally produce male hormones. If the testes do not form properly, it will lead to undervirilization. There are a number of possible causes for this, including XY pure gonadal dysgenesis., Problems with testosterone formation: Testosterone is formed through a series of steps, where each requires a different enzyme. Deficiencies in any of these enzymes can result in inadequate testosterone and produce a different syndrome of 46, XY intersex. Different types of congenital adrenal hyperplasia can fall in this category., Problems with using testosterone: Some people have normal testes and make adequate amounts of testosterone, but still have 46, XY intersex. \r\n\r\n5-alpha-reductase deficiency. People with 5-alpha-reductase deficiency lack the enzyme needed to convert testosterone to dihydrotestosterone (DHT). There are at least five different types of 5-alpha-reductase deficiency. Some of the babies have normal male genitalia, some have normal female genitalia, and many have something in between. Most change to external male genitalia around the time of puberty., Androgen insensitivity syndrome (AIS). This is the most common cause of 46, XY intersex. It has also been called testicular feminization. Here the hormones are all normal, but the receptors to male hormones don't function properly. There are over 150 different defects that have been identified so far, and each causes a different type of AIS. . . True Gonadal Intersex. Here the person must have both ovarian and testicular tissue. This may be in the same gonad (an ovotestis), or the person might have one ovary and one testis. The person may have XX chromosomes, XY chromosomes, or both. The external genitals may be ambiguous or may appear to be female or male. This condition used to be called true hermaphroditism. In most people with true gonadal intersex, the underlying cause is unknown, although in some animal studies it has been linked to exposure to common agricultural pesticides.Complex or Undetermined Intersex Disorders of Sexual Development. Many chromosome configurations other than simple 46, XX or 46, XY can result in disorders of sex development. These include 45, XO (only one X chromosome), and 47, XXY, 47, XXX -- both cases have an extra sex chromosome, either an X or a Y. These disorders do not result in a condition where there is discrepancy between internal and external genitalia. However, there may be problems with sex hormone levels, overall sexual development, and altered numbers of sex chromosomes.", "Treatment": "Ideally, a team of health care professionals with expertise in intersex should work together to understand and treat the child with intersex -- and to understand, counsel, and support the entire family.Parents should understand controversies and changes in treating intersex in recent years. In the past, the prevailing opinion was that it was generally best to assign a gender as quickly as possible, often based on the external genitals rather than the chromosomal gender, and to instruct the parents to have no ambiguity in their minds as to the gender of the child. Prompt surgery was often recommended. Ovarian or testicular tissue from the other gender would be removed. In general, it was considered easier to reconstruct female genitalia than functioning male genitalia, so if the \"correct\" choice was not clear, the child was often assigned to be a girl.More recently, the opinion of many experts has shifted. Greater respect for the complexities of female sexual functioning has led them to conclude that suboptimal female genitalia may not be inherently better than suboptimal male genitalia, even if the reconstruction is \"easier.\" In addition, other factors may be more important in gender satisfaction than functioning external genitals. Chromosomal, neural, hormonal, psychological, and behavioral factors can all influence gender identity.Many experts now urge delaying definitive surgery for as long as healthy, and ideally involving the child in the gender decision.Clearly, intersex is a complex issue, and its treatment has short- and long-term consequences. The best answer will depend on many factors, including the specific cause of the intersex. It is best to take the time to understand the issues before rushing into a decision. An intersex support group may help acquaint families with the latest research, and may provide a community of other families, children, and adult individuals who have faced the same issues."}, "Intraductal papilloma": {"description": "Intraductal papilloma is a small, noncancerous (benign) tumor that grows in a milk duct of the breast.", "Possible Complications": "Complications of surgery can include bleeding, infection, and anesthesia risks. If the biopsy shows cancer, you may need further surgery.", "Symptoms": ["Breast lump", "Nipple discharge "], "Exams and Tests": "The health care provider might feel a small lump under the nipple, but this lump cannot always be felt. There may be discharge from the nipple.A mammogram should be performed, but may not show a papilloma. Ultrasound may be helpful.Other tests include:A breast biopsy to rule out cancer. If you have nipple discharge, a surgical biopsy is performed. If you have a lump, sometimes a needle biopsy can be done to make a diagnosis., An examination of discharge released from the breast to see if the cells are cancerous (malignant)., An x-ray with contrast dye injected into the affected duct (ductogram). This test has been mostly replaced by ultrasound.. ", "Treatment": "The duct is removed with surgery. The cells are checked for cancer (biopsy).", "Prevention": "There is no known way to prevent intraductal papilloma. Breast self-exams and screening mammograms can help detect the disease early.", "Causes": "Intraductal papilloma occurs most often in women ages 35 - 55. The causes and risk factors are unknown."}, "Intravitreal injection": {"description": "An intravitreal injection is a shot of medicine into the eye. The inside of the eye is filled with a jelly-like fluid (vitreous). During this procedure, your health care provider injects medicine into the vitreous, near the retina at the back of the eye. The medicine can treat certain eye problems and help protect your vision."}, "Incontinentia pigmenti ": {"description": "Incontinentia pigmenti is skin condition passed down through families. It leads to unusual blistering and changes in skin color.", "Possible Complications": "Delayed development, Infections of blistered skin, Intellectual disability, Muscle spasticity, Paralysis, Seizures, Walking difficulty, Vision problems. ", "Symptoms": ["Delayed development", "Loss of movement (paralysis)", "Intellectual disability", "Muscle spasms", "Seizures"], "Exams and Tests": "The doctor will perform a physical exam, look at the eyes, and test muscle movement. Imaging tests of the brain, blood tests, and a skin biopsy may be done to confirm diagnosis.There may be unusual patterns and blisters on the skin, as well as bone abnormalities. An eye exam may reveal cataracts, strabismus (crossed eyes), or other problems.", "Treatment": "There is no specific treatment for IP. Treatment is aimed at the individual symptoms. For example, glasses may be needed to improve vision. Medicine may be prescribed to help control seizures or muscle spasms.", "Prevention": "Genetic counseling may be helpful for those with a family history of IP who are considering having children.", "Causes": "Incontinentia pigmenti (IP) is caused by an x-linked dominant\u00a0genetic defect.The condition is most often seen in females. When it occurs in males, it is lethal.Most babies born with IP develop discolored skin within the first 2 weeks. The discolored skin occurs when a substance called melanin builds up under the skin. Melanin gives skin its color."}, "Immune response": {"description": "The immune response is how your body recognizes and defends itself against bacteria, viruses, and substances that appear foreign and harmful."}, "Ibuprofen overdose": {"Symptoms": ["Ringing in the ears", "Blurred vision", "Diarrhea", "Heartburn", "Nausea", "Stomach pain (possible bleeding in stomach and intestines)", "Vomiting", "Little to no urine production", "Breathing - difficult", "Breathing - slow", "Wheezing", "Headache", "Agitation", "Incoherence (not understandable)", "Confusion", "Coma", "Drowsiness", "Seizures", "Dizziness", "Unsteadiness", "Rash", "Sweating"], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or 1-800-222-1222 for a local poison control center."}, "Immunoelectrophoresis - blood": {"description": "Immunoglobulins can also be measured in the urine."}, "Infant test/procedure preparation": {"description": "Being prepared before your infant has a medical test can help you know what to expect during the test. It will also help reduce your anxiety so that you can help keep your infant as calm and comfortable as possible. "}, "Infectious myringitis": {"Symptoms": ["Draining from the ear", "Hearing loss in the painful ear"], "description": "Infectious myringitis is an infection that causes painful blisters on the eardrum (tympanum).", "Causes": "Infectious myringitis is caused by the same viruses or bacteria that cause middle ear infections. The most common of these is mycoplasma. It is often found along with the common cold or other similar infections.The condition is most often seen in children, but it\u00a0may also occur in adults.", "Treatment": "Infectious myringitis is usually treated with antibiotics. These may be given by mouth or as drops in the ear. If the pain is severe, small cuts may be made in the blisters so they can drain. Pain-killing drugs may be prescribed, as well."}, "Imperforate hymen": {"description": "Imperforate hymen is something a girl is born with. No one knows why this happens. There is nothing that the mother did to cause it.", "Treatment": "A minor surgery can fix an imperforate hymen. The surgeon makes a small cut or incision and removes the extra hymen membrane.Girls who are diagnosed with imperforate hymen as babies usually have surgery when they are older and have just started puberty. Their breasts are starting to grow and they have a little bit of pubic hair. But they do not have their period yet., Girls who are diagnosed when they are older have the same surgery. The surgeon also makes sure that the old menstrual blood comes out. . Girls recover from this surgery in a few days.After surgery, the girl may have to insert dilators into the vagina for 15 minutes each day. A dilator looks like a tampon. This keeps the incision from closing on itself and keeps the vagina open."}, "Insomnia: Tips for better sleep": {"description": "While 7 - 8 hours a night is recommended for most people, children and teenagers need more. Older people tend to do fine with less sleep at night, but may still require approximately 8 hours of sleep over a 24-hour period. The quality of sleep is as important as how much sleep you get."}, "Iron overdose": {"Symptoms": ["Buildup of fluids in the lungs", "Black, and possibly bloody stools", "Diarrhea", "Liver damage", "Metallic taste in mouth", "Nausea", "Vomiting blood", "Dehydration", "Low blood pressure", "Fast and weak pulse", "Shock", "Chills", "Coma (decreased level of consciousness and lack of responsiveness, may occur within 1/2 hour to 1 hour after overdose)", "Convulsions", "Dizziness", "Drowsiness", "Fever", "Headache", "Lack of desire to do anything ", "Bluish-colored lips and fingernails", "Flushing", "Loss of color from the skin (pallor)"], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222."}, "Idiopathic livedo reticularis": {"description": "Idiopathic means the cause is unknown.", "Treatment": "The cause of primary or idiopathic livedo reticularis is not known, therefore specific treatment is usually not recommended. If the condition is due to exposure to cold, keeping the legs warm may help relieve the symptoms."}, "IgA nephropathy": {"description": "It is also called Berger's disease.", "Possible Complications": "Acute nephritic syndrome or nephrotic syndrome, Chronic kidney failure, End-stage kidney disease. ", "Symptoms": ["Bloody urine that starts during or soon after a respiratory infection", "Repeated episodes of dark or bloody urine", "Swelling of the hands and feet", "Symptoms of chronic kidney disease"], "Exams and Tests": "IgA nephropathy usually is discovered when a person with no other symptoms of kidney problems has one or more episodes of dark or bloody urine.There are no specific changes seen during a physical examination. Sometimes, the blood pressure may be high or there may be swelling of the body.Tests include:Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) blood test to measure kidney function, Creatinine blood test to measure kidney function, Kidney biopsy to confirm the diagnosis, Urinalysis, Urine immunoelectrophoresis. ", "Treatment": "The goal of treatment is to relieve symptoms and prevent or delay chronic renal failure.You may get medicines to control high blood pressure and swelling (edema), such as angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs). Controlling blood pressure is the most important way to delay kidney damage.Corticosteroids, other drugs that suppress the immune system, and fish oil have also been used to treat this disorder.Salt and fluids may be restricted to control swelling. A low to moderate protein diet may be recommended in some cases.Some people will need to take medicines to lower their cholesterol.Eventually, many patients must be treated for chronic kidney disease and may need dialysis.", "Causes": "IgA is a protein called an antibody that helps the body fight infections. IgA nephropathy (Berger's disease) occurs when too much of this protein is deposited in the kidneys. IgA builds up inside the small blood vessels of the kidney. Structures in the kidney called glomeruli become inflamed and damaged.IgA nephropathy (Berger's disease) is a form of mesangial proliferative nephritis.The disorder can appear suddenly (acute), or get worse slowly over many years (chronic glomerulonephritis).Risk factors include:A personal or family history of IgA nephropathy or Henoch Schonlein purpura, a form of vasculitis that affects many parts of the body, Caucasian or Asian ethnicity. IgA nephropathy can occur in people of all ages, but it most often affects males in their teens to late 30s."}, "Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis": {"Symptoms": ["Chest pain (occasionally)", "Cough (usually dry)", "Decreased tolerance for activity", "Shortness of breath during activity (this symptom lasts for months or years, and over time may also occur when at rest)"], "Exams and Tests": "The health care provider will\u00a0do a physical exam and ask about your medical history. You will be asked\u00a0whether you have been exposed to asbestos or other toxins and if you have been a smoker.The physical exam may find that you have:Abnormal breath sounds called crackles, Blue-colored skin (cyanosis) around the mouth or fingernails due to low oxygen (with advanced disease), Enlargement of the fingernail bases, called clubbing (with advanced disease) . Tests that help diagnose idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis include the following:Bronchoscopy, Chest CT scan, Chest x-ray, Echocardiogram, Measurements of blood oxygen level (arterial blood gases), Pulmonary function tests, Six-minute walk test, Tests for connective tissue diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, or scleroderma, Open lung (surgical) lung biopsy . ", "description": "Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is scarring or thickening of the lungs without a known cause.", "Causes": "Doctors do not know what causes idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) or why some people get it. Idiopathic means the cause is not known. The condition may be due to the lungs responding to an unknown substance or injury. Genes may play a role in developing IPF. The disease occurs most often in people between 50 and 70 years old. When you have IPF, your lungs become scarred and stiffened. This makes it hard for you to breathe. In some people, IPF gets worse quickly over months or\u00a0a few years.\u00a0\u00a0In others, IPF worsens over a much longer time.", "Treatment": "There is no known cure for IPF. Treatment is aimed at relieving symptoms:Medicines such as corticosteroids may help reduce swelling (inflammation) inside the lungs., Patients with low blood oxygen levels may need oxygen\u00a0support\u00a0at home., Lung rehabilitation will not cure the disease, but it can help people exercise without difficulty breathing.. Making home and lifestyle changes can help manage breathing symptoms.\u00a0If you or any family members\u00a0smoke, now is the time to stop.Some patients with advanced pulmonary fibrosis may need a lung transplant.Medicines are now being tested to see if they can slow the disease."}, "Indomethacin overdose": {"Symptoms": ["Blurred vision", "Ringing in the ears", "Congestive heart failure (chest pain, shortness of breath)", "High or low blood pressure", "Diarrhea", "Nausea", "Possible loss of blood in the stomach and intestines", "Stomach pain", "Vomiting (sometimes with blood) ", "Difficulty breathing", "Wheezing ", "Headache", "Agitation", "Coma (decreased level of consciousness and lack of responsiveness)", "Confusion", "Convulsions", "Drowsiness", "Fatigue and weakness (lethargy)", "Numbness and tingling", "Seizures", "Unsteadiness", "Blistering rash", "Bruising", "Sweating "], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222."}, "Interstitial cystitis": {"Symptoms": ["Bladder pressure or discomfort (mild or severe)", "Urge to urinate often", "Burning pain in the pelvic area", "Pain during intercourse "], "Exams and Tests": "Your doctor will look for other causes of your symptoms. These include: Sexually transmitted infections, Bladder cancer, Bladder infections . Tests are performed on your urine look for infection or cells that suggest cancer inside the bladder. During a cystoscopy, the doctor uses a special tube with a small camera on the end to look inside your bladder. A sample or biopsy of the lining of your bladder may be taken. Tests at your doctor's office may also be done to show how much urine must be in the bladder before you feel the need to urinate. ", "description": "Interstitial cystitis is a long-term (chronic) problem in which pain, pressure, or burning is present in the bladder. It is also called painful bladder syndrome.", "Causes": "The bladder is a hollow organ with a thin layer of muscle that stores urine. When your bladder fills up with urine, it sends a signal to your brain, telling the muscles to squeeze. In most people, these signals are not sent until your bladder is almost full. If you have interstitial cystitis, the signal to empty your bladder is sent more often or when your bladder is not very full.The condition most often occurs between ages 30 to 40, although it has been reported in younger people.Women are 10 times more likely to have IC than men.The exact cause of this condition is unknown.", "Treatment": "There is no cure for IC, and there are no standard treatments. Treatment is based on trial and error until you find relief. Results vary from person to person. DIET AND LIFESTYLE CHANGESSome patients find that making changes in their diet can help control symptoms. Try to avoid foods and beverages that can cause bladder irritation. Stop eating certain foods, one at a time, to see if your symptoms get better. Reduce or stop consuming caffeine, chocolate, carbonated beverages, citrus drinks, and foods with high levels of vitamin C.Other foods that the Interstitial Cystitis Association lists as possibly causing bladder irritation are:Aged cheeses, Alcohol, Artificial sweeteners, Fava and lima beans, Meats that are cured, processed, smoked, canned, aged, or that contain nitrites, Most fruits except blueberries, honeydew melon, and pears, Nuts except almonds, cashews, and pine nuts, Onions, Rye bread, Seasonings that contain MSG, Sour cream, Sourdough bread, Soy, Tea, Tofu, Tomatoes, Yogurt . You and your doctor should discuss methods you can use for bladder training, such as training yourself to urinate at specific times or using biofeedback to relieve pelvic floor muscle spasms.MEDICINE AND PROCEDURESCombination therapy may include medicines such as:Pentosan polysulfate sodium, the only medication taken by mouth that is approved for treating IC, Tricyclic antidepressants such as amitriptyline to relieve pain and urinary frequency, Vistaril (hydroxyzine pamoate), an antihistamine that causes sedation and helps reduce urinary frequency . Other therapies include:Over-filling the bladder with fluid while under general anesthesia, called bladder hydrodistention, Medicines placed directly into the bladder, including dimethyl sulfoxide (DMS), heparin, or lidocaine, Bladder removal (cystectomy) for extremely difficult cases . "}, "Imipramine overdose": {"Symptoms": ["Agitation", "Blurred vision", "Breathing slowly and with effort", "Coma (decreased level of consciousness and lack of responsiveness)", "Confusion", "Constipation", "Convulsions", "Enlarged pupils in the eye", "Delirium (agitation and confusion)", "Dizziness", "Drowsiness", "Dry mouth", "Hallucinations", "Irregular heartbeat", "Low blood pressure", "Muscle rigidity and spasms", "Restlessness", "Seizures", "Skin flushing", "Stupor (lack of alertness)", "Shock", "Uncoordinated movement", "Urinary hesitancy", "Vomiting"], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222."}, "Ileostomy": {"description": "The word \"ileostomy\" comes from the words \"ileum\" and \"stoma.\" Your ileum is the lowest part of your small intestine. \"Stoma\" means \"opening.\" Your ileum will pass through a stoma after your surgery."}, "Industrial bronchitis": {"description": "Industrial bronchitis is swelling (inflammation) of the large airways of the lungs that occurs in some people who work around certain dusts, fumes, smoke, or other substances.", "Possible Complications": "Continued exposure to irritating gases, fumes, or other substances can lead to permanent lung damage.", "Symptoms": ["Cough that brings up mucus (sputum)", "Shortness of breath", "Wheezing"], "Exams and Tests": "The health care provider will listen to your lungs using a stethoscope. Wheezing sounds or crackles may be heard.Tests include:Chest CT scan, Chest x-ray, Pulmonary function tests. ", "Treatment": "The purpose of treatment is to reduce the irritation.Getting more air into the workplace or wearing masks to filter out the offending dust particles may help. Some people may need to be taken out of the workplace.Some cases of industrial bronchitis go away without treatment. Other times, a person may need inhaled anti-inflammatory medications. If you are at risk or have experienced this problem and you smoke, stop smoking.Helpful measures include:Breathing humidified air, Increasing fluid intake, Resting. ", "Prevention": "Control dust in industrial settings by wearing face masks and protective clothing, and by treating textiles. Stop smoking if you are at risk.Get early screening by a doctor if you are exposed to chemicals that can cause this condition.If you think a chemical you work with is affecting your breathing, ask your employer for a copy of the Material Safety Data Sheet. Bring it with you to your health care provider.", "Causes": "Exposure to dusts, fumes, strong acids, and other chemicals in the air causes this type of bronchitis. Smoking may also contribute. Employers are required to have copies of material safety data sheets available in the workplace.You may be at risk if you are exposed to dusts that contain:Asbestos, Coal, Cotton, Flax, Latex, Metals, Silica, Talc, Toluene diisocyanate, Western red cedar. "}, "Interstitial nephritis": {"description": "Interstitial nephritis is a kidney disorder in which the spaces between the kidney tubules become swollen (inflamed). This can cause problems with the way your kidneys work.", "Possible Complications": "Metabolic acidosis can occur because the kidneys aren't able to remove enough acid. The disorder can lead to acute or chronic kidney failure or end-stage kidney disease.", "Symptoms": ["Blood in the urine", "Fever", "Increased or decreased urine output", "Mental status changes (drowsiness, confusion, coma)", "Nausea, vomiting", "Rash", "Swelling of the body, any area", "Weight gain (from retaining fluid)"], "Exams and Tests": "The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may reveal:Abnormal lung or heart sounds, High blood pressure, Fluid in the lungs (pulmonary edema). Common tests include:Arterial blood gases, Blood chemistry, BUN and blood creatinine levels, Complete blood count, Kidney biopsy, Kidney ultrasound, Urinalysis. ", "Treatment": "Treatment depends on the cause of the problem. Avoiding medications that lead to this condition may relieve symptoms quickly.Limiting salt and fluid in the diet can improve swelling and high blood pressure. Limiting protein in the diet can help control the buildup of waste products in the blood (azotemia) that can lead to symptoms of acute kidney failure.If dialysis is necessary, it usually is required for only a short time.Corticosteroids or stronger anti-inflammatory medications such as cyclophosphamide can sometimes be helpful.", "Prevention": "In many cases, the disorder can't be prevented. Avoiding or reducing your use of medications that can cause this condition can help reduce your risk.", "Causes": "Interstitial nephritis may be temporary (acute), or it may be long-lasting (chronic) and get worse over time.The acute form of interstitial nephritis is most often caused by side effects of certain drugs.The following can cause interstitial nephritis:Allergic reaction to a drug (acute interstitial allergic nephritis), Autoimmune disorders such as anti-tubular basement membrane disease, Kawasaki\u2019s disease, Sjogren syndrome, systemic lupus erythematosus, or Wegener\u2019s granulomatosis, Infections, Long-term use of medications such as acetaminophen (Tylenol), aspirin, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS). This is called analgesic nephropathy., Side effect of certain antibiotics (including penicillin, ampicillin, methicillin, sulfonamide medications, and others), Side effect of other medications such as furosemide, thiazide diuretics, omeprazole, triamterene, and allopurinol, Too little potassium in your blood, Too much calcium or uric acid in your blood. "}, "Inducing labor": {"description": "Several methods can help get labor started.\r\n"}, "Immunoelectrophoresis - urine": {"description": "Immunoglobulins can also be measured in the blood. "}, "Iodine poisoning": {"Symptoms": ["Abdominal pain", "Coughing", "Delirium", "Diarrhea", "Fever", "Metallic taste in mouth", "Mouth and throat pain", "No urine output", "Seizures", "Shock", "Shortness of breath", "Stupor", "Thirst", "Vomiting"], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or a local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222."}, "Infertility - resources": {"description": "The following organizations are good resources for information on infertility:"}, "Itching": {"description": "Itching is a tingling or irritation of the skin that makes you want to scratch the affected area. Itching may occur all over the body or only in one location.", "Causes": "There are many causes of itching, including:Aging skin, Atopic dermatitis, Contact dermatitis (poison ivy or poison oak), Contact irritants (such as soaps, chemicals, or wool), Dry skin, Hives, Insect bites and stings, Parasites such as pinworm, body lice, head lice, and pubic lice, Pityriasis rosea, Psoriasis, Rashes (may or may not itch), Seborrheic dermatitis, Sunburn, Superficial skin infections such as folliculitis and impetigo. Generalized itching may be caused by:Allergic reactions, Childhood infections (such as chickenpox or measles), Hepatitis, Iron deficiency anemia, Kidney disease, Liver disease with jaundice, Pregnancy, Reactions to medications and substances such as antibiotics (penicillin, sulfonamides), gold, griseofulvin, isoniazid, opiates, phenothiazines, or vitamin A. "}, "Irradiated foods": {"description": "Food irradiation is used in many countries. It was first approved in the U.S. to prevent sprouts on white potatoes and for the control of insects on wheat and in certain spices and seasonings."}, "Idiopathic hypersomnia": {"Symptoms": ["Daytime naps that do not relieve drowsiness", "Difficulty waking from a long sleep -- may feel confused or disoriented", "Increased need for sleep during the day -- even while at work, or during a meal or conversation", "Increased sleep time -- up to 14\u00a0to 18 hours per day", "Anxiety", "Feeling irritated", "Loss of appetite", "Low energy", "Restlessness", "Slow thinking or speech", "Trouble remembering"], "Exams and Tests": "The health care provider will take a detailed sleep history. Tests may include:Multiple-sleep latency test, Sleep study (polysomnography, to identify other sleep disorders). A psychiatric evaluation for atypical depression may also be done.", "description": "Idiopathic hypersomnia is\u00a0a sleep disorder without a clear cause, in which you are excessively sleepy\u00a0(hypersomnia) during the day. It is different from narcolepsy, because idiopathic hypersomnia does not involve suddenly falling asleep or losing muscle control due to strong emotions (cataplexy).", "Causes": "The usual approach is to consider other potential causes of excessive daytime sleepiness.Other sleep disorders that may cause daytime sleepiness include:Isolated sleep paralysis, Narcolepsy, Obstructive sleep apnea, Restless leg syndrome. Other causes of excessive sleepiness include:Atypical depression, Certain medications, Drug and alcohol use, Low thyroid function (hypothyroidism), Previous head injury. ", "Treatment": "Idiopathic hypersomnia is usually treated with stimulant medications such as amphetamine, methylphenidate, and modafinil. These\u00a0medicines may not work as well for this condition as they do for narcolepsy.If an underlying cause of the hypersomnia is found, it should be treated. \r\n Lifestyle changes that can help ease symptoms and prevent injury include:Avoiding alcohol and medications that can make the condition worse, Avoiding operating motor vehicles or using dangerous equipment, Avoiding working at night or social activities that delay bedtime. "}, "Intestinal leiomyoma": {"description": "A leiomyoma is a noncancerous (benign) tumor made up mostly of smooth muscle cells. It is called an intestinal leiomyoma when the tumor is located in the intestinal tract. Usually, these tumors cause no symptoms, and they are found when a person has an upper GI endoscopy or colonoscopy for another reason. Rarely, these tumors can cause bleeding, obstruction or perforation of the gastrointestinal tract. If this happens, the tumor will need to be surgically removed. \r\n"}, "Imaging and radiology": {"description": "Doctors who specialize in radiology are called radiologists."}, "Immunodeficiency disorders": {"description": "Immunodeficiency disorders occur when the body's immune response is reduced or absent.", "Possible Complications": "Frequent or ongoing illness, Increased risk of certain cancers or tumors, Increased risk of infection . ", "Symptoms": [], "Exams and Tests": "Your doctor might think you have an immunodeficiency disorder if you have:Infections that keep coming back or do not go away, Severe infection from bacteria or other germs that do not usually cause severe infection. Other signs include:Poor response to treatment for infections, Delayed or incomplete recovery from illness, Certain types of cancers (such as Kaposi's sarcoma or non-Hodgkin lymphoma), Certain infections (including some forms of pneumonia or\u00a0repeated yeast infections) . Tests used to help diagnose an immunodeficiency disorder may include:Complement levels in the blood, or other tests to measure substances released by the immune system, HIV test, Immunoglobulin levels in the blood, Protein electrophoresis (blood or urine), T (thymus derived) lymphocyte count, White blood cell count. ", "Treatment": "The goal of treatment is to prevent infections and treat any disease and infections that do develop.If you have a weakened immune system, you should avoid contact with persons who have infections or contagious disorders. You may have to avoid people who have been vaccinated with live virus vaccines within the past 2 weeks.If you develop an infection, your doctor will treat you aggressively. This may involve long-term use of antibiotic or antifungal medications and preventive (prophylactic) treatments.Interferon is used to treat viral infections and some types of cancer. It is an immunostimulant drug, a medicine that makes the immune system work better.Persons with HIV or AIDS may take combinations of drugs to reduce the amount of HIV in their immune systems and improve their immunity.Patients who are going to have a planned splenectomy should be vaccinated 2 weeks before the surgery against bacteria such as Streptococcus pneumonia and Haemophilus influenzae.Bone marrow transplants may be used to treat certain immunodeficiency conditions.Passive immunity (receiving antibodies produced by another person or animal) may sometimes be recommended to prevent illness after you have been exposed to certain bacteria or viruses.", "Prevention": "There is no known way to prevent congenital immunodeficiency disorders. If you have a family history of immunodeficiency disorders, you might want to have genetic counseling.Practicing safer sex and avoiding the sharing of body fluids may help prevent HIV infection and AIDS. Good nutrition may prevent acquired immunodeficiency caused by malnutrition.", "Causes": "The immune system is made up of lymphoid tissue in the body, which includes:Bone marrow, Lymph nodes, Parts of the spleen and gastrointestinal tract, Thymus, Tonsils . Proteins and cells in the blood are also part of the immune system.The immune system helps protect the body from harmful substances called antigens. Examples of antigens include bacteria, viruses, toxins, cancer cells, and foreign blood or tissues from another person or species.Watch this video about:Immune responseWhen the immune system detects an antigen, it responds by producing proteins called antibodies that destroy the harmful substances. The immune system response also involves a process called phagocytosis. During this process, certain white blood cells swallow and destroy bacteria and other foreign substances. Proteins called complement help with this process.Watch this video about:PhagocytosisImmunodeficiency disorders may affect any part of the immune system. Most often, these conditions occur when special white blood cells called T or B lymphocytes (or both) do not function normally or your body does not produce enough antibodies.Inherited immunodeficiency disorders that affect B cells include:Hypogammaglobulinemia, which usually leads to respiratory and gastrointestinal infections, Agammaglobulinemia, which results in severe infections early in life, and is often deadly. Inherited immunodeficiency disorders that affect T cells may cause repeated Candida (yeast) infections. Inherited combined immunodeficiency affects both T cells and B cells. It may be deadly within the first year of life if it isn't treated early.People are said to be immunosuppressed when they have an immunodeficiency disorder due to medicines that weaken the immune system (such as corticosteroids). Immunosuppression is also a common side effect of chemotherapy given to treat cancer.Acquired immunodeficiency may be a complication of diseases such as HIV infection and malnutrition (especially if the person does not eat enough protein). Many cancers may also cause immunodeficiency.People who have had their spleen removed have an acquired immunodeficiency, and are at higher risk for infection by certain bacteria that the spleen would normally help fight. Patients with diabetes are also at higher risk for certain infections.As you get older, the immune system becomes less effective. Immune system tissues (especially lymphoid tissue such as the thymus) shrink, and the number and activity of white blood cells drop.The following conditions and diseases can lead to an immunodeficiency disorder:Ataxia-telangiectasia, Complement deficiencies, DiGeorge syndrome, Hypogammaglobulinemia, Job syndrome, Leukocyte adhesion defects, Bruton disease, Wiscott-Aldrich syndrome . "}, "Ingrown toenail": {"description": "An ingrown toenail occurs when the edge of the nail grows down and into the skin of the toe.", "Possible Complications": "In severe cases, the infection\u00a0can spread through the toe and into the bone.", "Symptoms": [], "Exams and Tests": "An exam of the foot will show the following:Skin along the edge of the nail appears to be growing over the nail, or the nail seems to be growing underneath the skin., Skin is swollen, firm, red, or tender to touch. There may be a small amount of pus.. Tests or x-rays are usually not needed.", "Treatment": "If you have diabetes, nerve damage in the leg or foot, poor blood circulation to your foot, or an infection around the nail, go to the doctor right away. Do\u00a0not try to treat\u00a0an ingrown nail\u00a0at home.Otherwise, to treat an ingrown nail at home:Soak the foot in warm water 3 to 4 times a day if possible. After soaking, keep the toe dry., Gently massage over the inflamed skin., Place a small piece of cotton or dental floss under the nail. Wet the cotton with water or antiseptic.. When trimming your toenails:Briefly soak your foot in warm water to soften the nail., Use a clean, sharp trimmer., Trim toenails straight across the top. Do not taper or round the corners or trim too short. Do not try to cut out the ingrown portion of the nail yourself. This will only make the problem worse.. Consider wearing sandals until the problem\u00a0goes away. Over-the-counter medication that is applied to the ingrown toenail may help with the pain, but it\u00a0does not treat the problem.If this does not work and the ingrown nail gets worse, see your family doctor, a foot specialist (podiatrist) or a skin specialist (dermatologist).If your ingrown nail does not heal or keeps coming back, your doctor may remove part of the nail:Numbing medicine is first injected into the toe., The doctor uses\u00a0scissors to cut along the edge of the nail where the skin is growing over. This portion of the nail is removed. This procedure is called a partial nail avulsion., It takes 2 to 4 months for the nail to regrow.. Sometimes your doctor will use a chemical, electrical current, or another small surgical cut to destroy or remove the area from which a new nail may grow.If the toe is infected, your doctor may prescribe antibiotics.", "Prevention": "Wear shoes that fit properly. Shoes that you wear every day should have plenty of room around your toes. Shoes that you wear for walking briskly or for running should also have plenty of room, but not be too loose.When trimming your toenails:Briefly soak your foot in warm water to soften the nail., Use a clean, sharp nail trimmer., Trim toenails straight across the top. Do not taper or round the corners or trim too short., Do not pick or tear at the nails.. Keep\u00a0your feet clean and dry. People with diabetes should have routine foot exams and nail care.", "Causes": "An ingrown toenail can result from a number of things. Poorly fitting shoes and toenails that are not properly trimmed are the most common causes. The skin along the edge of a toenail may become red and infected. The great toe is affected most often, but any toenail can become ingrown.Ingrown toenails may occur when extra pressure is placed on your toe. This pressure is caused by shoes that are too tight or too loose. If you walk often or participate in athletics, a shoe that is even a little tight can cause this problem. Deformities of the foot or toes can also place extra pressure on the toe.Nails that are not trimmed properly can also cause ingrown toenails.Toenails that are trimmed too short, or if the edges are rounded rather than cut straight across may cause\u00a0the nail to\u00a0curl downward and grow into the skin., Poor eyesight, inability to reach the toes easily, or having thick nails can make it hard to properly trim nails., Picking or tearing at the corners of the nails can also cause an ingrown toenail.. Some people are born with nails that are curved and grow downward. Others have toenails that are too large for their toes. Stubbing your toe or other injuries can also lead to an ingrown toenail."}, "Intertrigo": {"description": "Intertrigo is inflammation of the skin. It\u00a0tends to occur in warm, moist areas of the body where two skin surfaces rub or press against each other. Such areas are called \"skin folds.\"", "Causes": "Intertrigo affects the top layers of skin. It is caused by moisture, bacteria, yeast, or fungus in the folds of the skin. The affected areas of skin are usually pink to brown. If the skin is very moist, it may begin to break down. In severe cases, there may be a bad odor.The condition is most common in persons who are obese. It may also be seen in people who must stay in bed or who wear medical devices such as artificial limbs, splints, and braces. These devices may trap moisture against the skin.Intertrigo is common in warm, moist climates."}, "Infant of diabetic mother": {"description": "An infant of a diabetic mother is a baby who is born to a mother with diabetes. The baby's mother had high blood sugar (glucose) levels throughout her pregnancy.", "Possible Complications": "Congenital heart defects, Heart failure, High bilirubin level (hyperbilirubinemia) -- may cause permanent brain damage if it is not treated, Immature lungs, Neonatal polycythemia (more red blood cells than normal) -- this may cause a blockage in the blood vessels or hyperbilirubinemia, Severe low blood sugar - may cause permanent brain damage, Small left colon syndrome - causes symptoms of intestinal blockage, Stillbirth. ", "Symptoms": ["Blue or patchy (mottled) skin color, rapid heart rate, rapid breathing (signs of immature lungs or heart failure)", "Newborn jaundice (yellow skin)", "Poor feeding, lethargy, weak cry (signs of severe low blood sugar)", "Puffy face", "Reddish appearance", "Tremors or shaking shortly after birth "], "Exams and Tests": "Before the baby is born:Ultrasound performed on the mother in the last few months of pregnancy to assess the baby\u2019s development will show that the baby is large for gestational age., Lung maturity testing may be done on the amniotic fluid if the baby is going to be delivered more than a week before the due date.. After the baby is born:Tests may show that the infant has low blood sugar and low blood calcium., An echocardiogram may show an abnormally large heart, which can occur with heart failure.. ", "Treatment": "All infants who are born to mothers with diabetes should be tested for low blood sugar (hypoglycemia), even if they have no symptoms.If an infant had one episode of low blood sugar, tests to check blood sugar level will be done over several days. Testing will be continued until the infant's blood sugar remains stable with normal feedings.Feeding soon after birth may prevent low blood sugar in mild cases. Low blood sugar that does not go away is treated with sugar (glucose) and water given through a vein.Rarely, the infant may need breathing support or medicines to treat other effects of diabetes. High bilirubin levels are treated with light therapy (phototherapy). Rarely, the baby's blood will be replaced with blood from a donor (exchange transfusion) for this problem.", "Prevention": "Women with diabetes need special care during pregnancy to prevent complications. Controlling blood sugar and getting diagnosed with gestational diabetes early can prevent many problems.Lung maturity testing may help prevent breathing complications that can occur if the baby is being delivered more than a week before the due date.Carefully monitoring the infant in the first hours after birth may prevent complications due to low blood sugar. Monitoring and treatment in the first few days may prevent complications due to high bilirubin level.", "Causes": "High blood sugar level in a pregnant woman can affect the infant after birth. Infants who are born to mothers with diabetes are often larger than other babies. Organs such as the liver, adrenal glands, and heart are likely to be enlarged., These infants may have periods of low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) shortly after birth because of increased insulin level in their blood. Insulin is a substance that moves sugar (glucose) from the blood into body tissues. The infant's blood sugar level will need to be closely monitored in the first 12 to 24 hours of life. . Mothers with poorly controlled diabetes are also more likely to have a miscarriage or stillborn child. The delivery may be difficult if the baby is large. This can increase the risk for brachial plexus injuries and other trauma during birth.If the mother had diabetes before her pregnancy, her infant has an increased risk of birth defects if the disease was not well controlled."}, "Intercostal retractions": {"description": "Intercostal retractions are a medical emergency. ", "Causes": "Anaphylaxis, Asthma, Bronchiolitis, Croup, Epiglottitis, Foreign body in the windpipe (See: Foreign object aspiration or ingestion), Pneumonia, Respiratory distress syndrome, Retropharyngeal abscess. "}, "Insidious": {"description": "An insidious disease is any disease that comes on slowly, without obvious symptoms at first, so that the person is not aware of it developing."}, "Iron in diet": {"description": "Iron is a mineral found in every cell of the body. Iron is considered an essential mineral because it is needed to make part of blood cells."}, "Insulinoma": {"description": "An insulinoma is a tumor in the pancreas that produces too much insulin.", "Possible Complications": "Severe hypoglycemic reaction, Spreading of a cancerous tumor (metastasis), Diabetes if the entire pancreas is removed (rare). ", "Symptoms": ["Anxiety", "Behavior changes", "Clouded vision", "Coma", "Confusion", "Convulsions", "Dizziness", "Headache", "Hunger", "Loss of consciousness", "Rapid heart rate", "Sweating", "Tremor", "Weight gain"], "Exams and Tests": "After fasting, your blood may be tested for:Blood C-peptide level, Blood glucose level, Blood insulin level, Drugs that cause the pancreas to release insulin. CT or MRI scan of the abdomen, or PET scan\u00a0may be done to look for a tumor in the pancreas. If the test is negative, one of the following tests may be performed:Endoscopic ultrasound, Octreotide scan, Pancreatic arteriography, Pancreatic venous sampling for insulin. ", "Treatment": "Surgery is the recommended treatment for insulinoma. The tumor is first found by tests or surgery. Medication may be used to get patients stable before surgery.If there is a single tumor, it will be removed. If there are many tumors, part of the pancreas will need to be removed (partial pancreatectomy). At least 15% of the pancreas must be left to produce its enzymes for digestion. This may prevent the surgeon from removing the whole insulinoma tumor.In rare cases, the entire pancreas is removed if there are many insulinomas or they continue to come back.\u00a0Removing the entire pancreas leads to diabetes because there is no longer any insulin being produced. Insulin injections are then required.If no tumor is found during surgery, or if you are not a candidate for surgery, you may get the drug diazoxide to lower insulin production and\u00a0prevent hypoglycemia. A diuretic (water pill) is given with this medication to prevent the body from retaining fluid. Octreotide is used to reduce insulin release in some patients. ", "Causes": "The pancreas is an organ in the abdomen. The pancreas\u00a0makes several enzymes and hormones,\u00a0including the hormone insulin. Insulin's job is to reduce the level of sugar (glucose) in the blood by helping it move into cells.Most of the time when your blood sugar level drops too low, the pancreas stops making insulin until your blood sugar returns to normal. Tumors of the pancreas that produce too much insulin are called insulinomas. Insulinomas keep making insulin, even when your blood sugar drops too low.A high blood insulin level causes a\u00a0low blood sugar level (hypoglycemia). Hypoglycemia may be mild, leading to symptoms such as anxiety and hunger. Or it can be severe, leading to seizures, coma, and even death.Insulinomas are rare tumors. They usually occur as single, small tumors in adults.These tumors are very rare in children. Most children with high blood insulin levels have many areas of overactive insulin-releasing cells in the pancreas, instead of a single tumor.More than 90% of insulinomas are non-cancerous (benign) tumors. People with the genetic syndrome called multiple endocrine neoplasia type I are at risk\u00a0of insulinomas and other endocrine tumors."}, "Insect bites and stings": {"Symptoms": ["Pain", "Redness", "Swelling", "Itching", "Burning", "Numbness", "Tingling ", "Chest pain", "Face or mouth swelling", "Difficulty swallowing", "Difficulty breathing"], "description": "Insect and spider bites\u00a0cause more\u00a0deaths from\u00a0venom reactions\u00a0than bites from snakes. ", "Prevention": "Avoid rapid, jerky movements around insect hives or nests., Avoid perfumes and floral-patterned or dark clothing., Use appropriate insect repellants and protective clothing., Use caution when eating outdoors, especially with sweetened beverages or in areas around garbage cans, which often attract bees., If have severe allergies to insect bites or stings, you should have an emergency kit and EpiPen. Make sure your friends and family know how to use\u00a0it if you have a reaction. . "}, "Inspection": {"description": "In medical terms, \"inspection\" means to look at the patient or body part. It is the first step in a physical exam."}, "Imperforate anus": {"Symptoms": ["Anal opening very near the vagina opening in girls", "Baby does not pass first stool within 24 - 48 hours after birth", "Missing or moved opening to the anus", "Stool passes out of the vagina, base of penis, scrotum, or urethra", "Swollen belly area"], "Prevention": "There is no known prevention.", "description": "Imperforate anus is a defect that is present from birth (congenital). The opening to the anus is missing or blocked. The anus is the opening to the rectum through which stools leave the body.", "Causes": "Imperforate anus may occur in several forms.The rectum may end in a pouch that does not connect with the colon., The rectum may have openings to other structures. These may include the urethra, bladder, base of the penis or scrotum in boys, or vagina in girls., There may be narrowing (stenosis) of the anus or no anus.. The problem rare. It is caused by abnormal development of the fetus. Many forms of imperforate anus occur with other birth defects.", "Treatment": "The infant should be checked for other problems, such as abnormalities of the\u00a0genitals, urinary tract, and spine.Surgery to correct the defect is needed. If the rectum connects with other organs, these organs will also need to be repaired. A temporary colostomy (connecting the end of the large intestine to the abdomen wall so that stool can be collected in a bag) is often needed."}, "Indigestion": {"description": "Indigestion is NOT the same as heartburn.", "Causes": "Most of the time indigestion is not a sign of a serious health problem unless it occurs with other symptoms. These may include bleeding, weight loss, or trouble swallowing. Rarely, the discomfort of a heart attack is mistaken for indigestion. Indigestion may be triggered by:Drinking too much alcohol, Eating spicy, fatty, or greasy foods, Eating too much (overeating), Eating too fast, Stress or being nervous, Eating high-fiber foods, Smoking tobacco, Drinking too much caffeine . Other causes of indigestion are:Gallstones, Gastritis (when the lining of the stomach becomes inflamed or swollen), Swelling of the pancreas (pancreatitis), Ulcers (stomach or intestinal ulcer), Use of certain medicinessuch as antibiotics, aspirin, and over-the-counter pain medicines (NSAIDs) . "}, "Insufficient cervix": {"description": "An insufficient cervix may begin to dilate too early in pregnancy. If there is an insufficient cervix, the following problems are more likely to occur:"}, "Intrauterine": {"description": "Intrauterine means \"inside the uterus.\""}, "Infant botulism": {"description": "Infant botulism is a potentially life-threatening disease in which a bacteria called Clostridium botulinum grows inside a baby's gastrointestinal tract.", "Possible Complications": "Respiratory insufficiency can develop, requiring assistance with breathing (mechanical ventilation).", "Symptoms": ["Breathing stops or slows", "Constipation", "Eyelids sag or partially close", "Infant appears \"floppy\"", "Infant doesn't gag", "Loss of head control", "Paralysis that spreads downward", "Poor feeding and weak suckling", "Respiratory failure", "Tired all the time (lethargy)", "Weak cry"], "Exams and Tests": "The doctor will perform a physical exam. This may show a decreased muscle tone, a missing or decreased gag reflex, missing or decreased deep tendon reflexes, and eyelid drooping.A stool sample from the baby may be examined to check for the botulinum toxin or bacteria.Electromyography (EMG) can be done to help tell the difference between muscle and neurological problems.", "Treatment": "Botulism immune globulin is the main treatment for this condition. Infants that receive this treatment have shorter hospital stays and less severe illness.Any infant with botulism must receive supportive care during their recovery. This includes:Ensuring proper nutrition, Keeping the airway clear, Watching for breathing problems. If breathing problems develop, breathing support, including the use of a breathing machine, may be needed.Antibiotics do not appear to help the baby improve any faster, and are not needed unless another bacterial infection such as pneumonia develops.The use of human-derived botulinum antitoxin may also be helpful.", "Prevention": "Theoretically, the disease might be avoided by preventing exposure to spores. Since honey and corn syrup are sources of Clostridium spores, they should not be fed to infants less than 1 year old.", "Causes": "Clostridium botulinum is a spore-forming organism that is common in nature. The spores may be found in soil and certain foods (such as honey and some corn syrups).Infant botulism occurs mostly in young infants between 6 weeks and 6 months of age. It has been reported to occur as early as 6 days and as late as 1 year.Risk factors include swallowing honey as a baby, being around contaminated soil, and having less than one stool per day for a period greater than 2 months."}, "Iliotibial band syndrome - aftercare": {"description": "Iliotibial band syndrome occurs when the ITB becomes swollen and irritated from rubbing against the bone on the outside of your knee."}, "Infant of a substance-abusing mother": {"description": "Depending on the drugs the mother used, a baby's treatment may involve limiting stimulation, such as noise and bright lights, maximizing \"TLC\" (tender loving care), and possibly using medication. In the case of babies whose mothers used narcotics, a narcotic is usually given to the baby in a small dose that can be carefully adjusted and then slowly \"weaned\" or decreased over days to weeks. Sedatives are sometimes used as well. Infants with organ damage or neurodevelopmental issues may need medical or surgical therapy and long-term developmental assistance."}, "Ileostomy - changing your pouch": {"description": "Now you have an opening called a stoma in your belly. Waste will pass through the stoma into a pouch that collects it. You will need to take care of the stoma and empty the pouch many times a day."}, "Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator": {"description": "An implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) is a device that detects any life-threatening, rapid heartbeat. If such a heartbeat, called an arrhythmia, occurs, the ICD quickly sends an electrical shock to the heart to change the rhythm back to normal. This is called defibrillation."}, "Intraventricular hemorrhage of the newborn ": {"description": "Intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) of the newborn is bleeding into the fluid-filled areas (ventricles) inside the brain. The condition\u00a0occurs most often in babies that are born early (premature).", "Symptoms": ["Breathing pauses (apnea)", "Changes in blood pressure and heart rate", "Decreased muscle tone", "Decreased reflexes", "Excessive sleep", "Lethargy", "Weak suck", "Seizures and other abnormal movements"], "Exams and Tests": "All babies born before 30 weeks should have an ultrasound of the head to screen for IVH. The test is done once between 7 and 14 days of age. Babies born between 30-34 weeks may also have ultrasound screening if they have symptoms of the problem.A second ultrasound\u00a0may be done when the baby was originally expected to be born (the due date). The test may also be done if a baby has signs or symptoms of IVH.", "Causes": "Infants born\u00a0more than 10 weeks early\u00a0are at highest risk for this type of bleeding. The smaller and more premature\u00a0an infant is, the higher the risk for IVH. This is because blood vessels in the brain of premature infants are not yet fully developed. They are very fragile as a result. The blood vessels grow stronger in the last 10 weeks of pregnancy.IVH is more common in premature babies with:Respiratory distress syndrome, Unstable blood pressure, Other medical conditions at birth . The\u00a0problem may also occur in healthy babies who were born early. Rarely, IVH may develop in full-term babies.IVH is rarely present at birth. It occurs most often in the first several days of life. The condition is rare after 1 month of age, even if the baby was born early.There are four types of IVH. These are called \"grades\" and are based on the degree of bleeding.Grades 1 and 2 involve a smaller amount of bleeding. Most of the time, there are no long term problems as a result of the bleeding., Grades 3 and 4 involve more severe bleeding. The blood presses on or leaks into brain tissue. Blood clots can form and block the flow of cerebrospinal fluid. This can lead to increased fluid in the brain (hydrocephalus).. ", "Prevention": "Pregnant women who are high risk of delivering early\u00a0should be given medicines called corticosteroids. These drugs can help reduce the baby's risk for IVH. Some women who are on medicines that affect bleeding risks should get\u00a0vitamin K before delivery.Premature babies whose umbilical cords are not clamped right away have less risk of IVH.Premature babies who are born in a hospital with a NICU and do not have to be transported after birth also have less risk of IVH.", "Treatment": "There is no way to stop bleeding associated with IVH. The health care team will try to keep the infant stable and treat any symptoms the baby may be having. For example, a blood transfusion may be given to improve blood pressure and blood count.If swelling on the brain develops, a spinal tap may be done to drain fluid and try to relieve pressure. If this helps, surgery may be needed to place a tube (shunt) in the brain to drain fluid."}, "Intrauterine devices (IUD)": {"description": "An intrauterine device (IUD) is a small plastic T-shaped device used for birth control. It is inserted into the uterus where it stays to prevent pregnancy."}, "Impetigo": {"description": "Impetigo is a common skin infection.", "Possible Complications": "Kidney failure (post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis) (rare), Many patches of impetigo (in children), Permanent skin damage and scarring (very rare), Spread of the infection to other parts of the body (common). ", "Symptoms": ["One or\u00a0many blisters filled with pus that are easy to pop. In infants, the skin is reddish or raw-looking where a blister has broken.\u00a0", "Blisters that itch: \r\n\r\nFilled with yellow or honey-colored fluid, Oozing and crusting over. ", "Filled with yellow or honey-colored fluid", "Oozing and crusting over", "Rash that may begin as a single spot, but spreads to other areas with scratching", "Skin sores on the face, lips, arms, or legs, that spread to other areas", "Swollen lymph nodes near the infection"], "Exams and Tests": "Your health care provider will look at your skin to determine if you have impetigo.The health care provider may take a sample of bacteria from your skin to grow in the lab.This can help determine if MRSA is the cause. Specific antibiotics are needed to treat this type of bacteria.", "Treatment": "The goal is to cure the infection and relieve the symptoms.Your doctor will prescribe an\u00a0antibacterial cream. You may need to take\u00a0antibiotics by mouth if the infection is severe.Wash (do not scrub) the skin several times a day with an antibacterial soap to remove crusts and drainage.", "Prevention": "Prevent the spread of infection.If you have impetigo, always use a clean washcloth and towel each time., Do not share towels, clothing, razors, and other personal care products with other family members., Avoid touching blisters that are oozing., Wash your hands thoroughly after touching infected skin.. Keep your skin clean to prevent getting the infection. Clean minor cuts and scrapes well with soap and clean water. You can use a mild antibacterial soap.\u00a0\r\n", "Causes": "Impetigo is caused by streptococcus (strep) or staphylococcus (staph) bacteria. Methicillin-resistant staph aureus (MRSA) is becoming a common cause.The skin normally has many types of bacteria on it. When there is a break in the skin, bacteria can enter the body and grow there. This causes inflammation and infection. Breaks in the skin may occur with:Animal bites, Human bites, Injury or trauma to the skin, Insect bites. Impetigo may also occur on skin where there is no visible break.It is most common in children who live in unhealthy conditions.\u00a0In adults, it may occur following another skin problem. It may also develop after a cold or other virus. Impetigo can spread to others. You can catch the infection if the fluid that oozes from the blisters touches an open area on your skin."}, "Impacted tooth": {"description": "An impacted tooth is a tooth that does not break through the gum.", "Possible Complications": "Complications of an impacted tooth include:Abscess of the tooth or gum area, Chronic discomfort in the mouth, Infection, Malocclusion of the teeth, Plaque trapped between teeth and gums. ", "Symptoms": ["Bad breath", "Difficulty opening the mouth (occasionally)", "Pain or tenderness of the gums (gingiva) or jaw bone", "Prolonged headache or jaw ache", "Redness and swelling of the gums around the impacted tooth", "Swollen lymph nodes of the neck (occasionally)", "Unpleasant taste when biting down on or near the area", "Visible gap where a tooth did not emerge"], "Exams and Tests": "Your dentist will look for swollen tissue over the area where a tooth has not emerged, or has only partially emerged. The impacted tooth may be pressing on nearby teeth. The gums around the area may show signs of infection such as redness, drainage, and tenderness. As gums swell over impacted wisdom teeth and then drain and tighten, it may feel like the tooth came in and then went back down again.Dental x-rays confirm the presence of one or more teeth that have not emerged.", "Treatment": "No treatment may be needed if the impacted tooth is not causing any problems.Over-the-counter pain relievers may help if the impacted tooth causes discomfort. Warm salt water (one-half teaspoon of salt in one cup of water) or over-the-counter mouthwashes may be soothing to the gums.Removal of the tooth (extraction) is the usual treatment for an impacted tooth. This is done in the dentist's office. Most often, it will be done by an oral surgeon. Antibiotics may be prescribed before the extraction if the tooth is infected.", "Causes": "Teeth start to pass through the gums (emerge) during infancy, and again when the primary (baby) teeth are replaced by the permanent teeth.If a tooth fails to come in or emerges only partially, it is considered to be impacted. This most commonly happens with the wisdom teeth (the third set of molars). They are the last teeth to emerge. They usually come in between the ages of 17 and 21.An impacted tooth remains stuck in gum tissue or bone for various reasons. The area may be overcrowded so there's no room for the teeth to emerge. For example, the jaw may be too small to fit the wisdom teeth. Teeth may also become twisted, tilted, or displaced as they try to emerge. This results in impacted teeth.Impacted wisdom teeth are very common. They are often painless and do not cause problems. However, some professionals believe an impacted tooth pushes on the next tooth, which pushes the next tooth. Eventually, this can cause a misalignment of the bite. A partially emerged tooth can trap food, plaque, and other debris in the soft tissue around it, which can lead to inflammation and tenderness of the gums and unpleasant mouth odor. This is called pericoronitis. The retained debris may also lead to the decay on the wisdom tooth or the neighboring tooth."}, "Intravascular ultrasound ": {"description": "Intravascular ultrasound is a test that uses sound waves to see inside blood vessels. It is useful for evaluating the coronary arteries that supply the heart. "}, "Irritable bowel syndrome": {"Symptoms": ["Abdominal pain", "Gas", "Fullness", "Bloating", "If you have IBS with diarrhea, you will have frequent, loose, watery stools. You may have an urgent need to have a bowel movement, which may be hard to control. ", "If you have IBS which constipation, you will have a hard time passing stool, as well as fewer bowel movements. You may need to strain with a bowel movement and have cramps. Often, only a small amount or no stool at all will be passed."], "Exams and Tests": "There is no test to diagnose IBS. Most of the time, your doctor can diagnose IBS based on your symptoms. Eating a lactose-free diet for 2 weeks may help the doctor identify lactase deficiency.The following tests may be done to rule out other problems:Blood tests to see if you have celiac disease or a low blood count (anemia), Stool cultures to check for an infection . Your doctor may recommend a colonoscopy. During this test, a flexible tube is inserted through the anus to examine the colon. You may need this test if:Symptoms began later in life (over age 50), You have symptoms such as weight loss or bloody stools, You have abnormal blood tests (such as a low blood count) . Other disorders that can cause similar symptoms include:Celiac disease, Colon cancer (cancer rarely causes typical IBS symptoms, unless symptoms such as weight loss, blood in the stools, or abnormal blood tests are also present), Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis. ", "description": "IBS is not the same as inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). ", "Causes": "The reasons why IBS develop are not clear. It can occur after an infection of the intestines. This is called postinfectious IBS. There may also be other triggers.The intestine is connected to the brain. Signals go back and forth between the bowel and brain. These signals affect bowel function and symptoms. The nerves can become more active during stress. This can cause the intestines to be more sensitive and contract more.IBS can occur at any age. Often, it begins in the teen years or early adulthood. It is twice as common in women as in men.About 1 in 6 people in the U.S. have symptoms of IBS. It is the most common intestinal problem that causes patients to be referred to a bowel specialist (gastroenterologist).", "Treatment": "The goal of treatment is to relieve symptoms.Lifestyle changes can help in some cases of IBS. For example, regular exercise and improved sleep habits may reduce anxiety and help relieve bowel symptoms.Dietary changes can be helpful. However, no specific diet can be recommended for IBS, because the condition differs from one person to another.The following changes may help:Avoiding foods and drinks that stimulate the intestines (such as caffeine, tea, or colas), Eating smaller meals, Increasing fiber in the diet (this may improve constipation, but make bloating worse). Talk with your doctor before taking over-the-counter medications.No one medicine works for everyone. Some that your doctor may suggest include:Anticholinergic medications (dicyclomine, propantheline, belladonna, and hyoscyamine) taken about a half-hour before eating to control intestinal muscle spasms, Bisacodyl to treat constipation, Loperamide to treat diarrhea, Low doses of tricyclic antidepressants to help relieve intestinal pain, Lubiprostone for constipation symptoms, Rifaximin, an antibiotic. Psychological therapy or medicines for anxiety or depression may help with the problem."}, "Intellectual disability": {"description": "In the past, the term mental retardation was used to describe this condition. This term is no longer used.", "Symptoms": ["Lack of or slow development of motor skills, language skills, and self-help skills, especially when compared to peers", "Failure to grow intellectually or continued infant-like behavior", "Lack of curiosity", "Problems keeping up in school ", "Failure to adapt (adjust to new situations)", "Difficulty understanding and following social rules "], "Exams and Tests": "Developmental tests are often used to assess the child: Abnormal Denver developmental screening test, Adaptive Behavior score below average, Development way below that of peers, Intelligence quotient (IQ) score below 70 on a standardized IQ test . ", "Causes": "Intellectual disability\u00a0affects about 1% to\u00a03% of the population. There are many causes of intellectual disability, but doctors find a specific reason in only 25% of cases.Risk factors are related to the causes. Causes of intellectual disability can include:Infections (present at birth or occurring after birth) , Chromosomal abnormalities (such as Down syndrome), Environmental , Metabolic (such as hyperbilirubinemia, very high bilirubin levels in babies), Nutritional (such as malnutrition), Toxic (intrauterine exposure to alcohol, cocaine, amphetamines, and other drugs, Trauma (before and after birth), Unexplained (this largest category is for unexplained occurrences of intellectual disability) . ", "Prevention": "Genetic: Genetic counseling and screening during pregnancy can help parents understand risks and make plans and decisions.Social:\u00a0Nutrition programs can reduce disability associated with malnutrition. Early intervention in situations involving abuse and poverty will also help.Toxic: Preventing exposure to lead, mercury, and other toxins reduces the risk of disability.\u00a0Teaching women about\u00a0the risks of alcohol and drugs during pregnancy can also help reduce risk.Infectious diseases: Certain infections can lead to intellectual disability. Preventing these diseases reduces the risk. For example, rubella syndrome can be prevented through vaccination. Avoiding exposure to cat\u00a0feces that can cause toxoplasmosis during pregnancy helps reduce disability from this infection.", "Treatment": "Goal of treatment is to develop the person's potential to the fullest. Special education and training may begin as early as infancy. This includes social skills to help the person function as normally as possible.It is important for a specialist to evaluate the person for other physical and mental health problems. Persons with intellectual disability are often helped with behavioral counseling.Discuss your child\u2019s treatment and support options with your health care provider or social worker so that you can help your child reach his or her full potential."}, "Iron deficiency anemia": {"description": "Iron deficiency anemia occurs when your body does not have enough iron. Iron helps make red blood cells. ", "Symptoms": ["\r\n  Feeling grumpy\r\n  ", "\r\n  Feeling weak or tired more often than usual, or with exercise\r\n  ", "\r\n  Headaches\r\n  ", "\r\n  Problems concentrating or thinking\r\n  ", "Blue color to the whites of the eyes", "Brittle nails", "Desire to eat ice or other non-food things (pica)", "Light-headedness when you stand up", "Pale skin color", "Shortness of breath", "Sore tongue ", "\r\n  Dark, tar-colored stools or blood\r\n  ", "\r\n  Heavy menstrual bleeding (women)\r\n  ", "\r\n  Pain in the upper belly (from ulcers)\r\n  ", "\r\n  Weight loss (in people with cancer)\r\n  "], "Exams and Tests": "To diagnose anemia, your doctor may order these blood tests:Hematocrit and hemoglobin (red blood cell measures), RBC indices. Tests to check iron levels in your blood include:Bone marrow exam (rare)\r\n  , Iron binding capacity (TIBC) in the blood, Serum ferritin, Serum iron level . Tests that may be done to look for the cause of iron deficiency:Colonoscopy, \r\n  Fecal occult blood test\r\n  , Upper endoscopy. ", "Causes": "Iron deficiency anemia is the most common form of anemia.Red blood cells bring oxygen to the body's tissues. Healthy red blood cells are made in your bone marrow. Red blood cells circulate through your body for 3 to 4 months. Parts of your body,\u00a0such as\u00a0your spleen, remove old blood cells.Iron is a key part of red blood cells. Without iron, the blood cannot carry oxygen effectively. Your body normally gets iron through your diet. It also reuses iron from old red blood cells.You get iron deficiency anemia when your body's iron stores run low. This can occur because:You lose more blood cells and iron than your body can replace, Your body does not do a good job of absorbing iron, Your body is able to absorb iron, but you are not eating enough foods that contain iron, Your body needs more iron than normal (such as if you are pregnant or breastfeeding) . Bleeding can cause iron loss. Common causes of bleeding are:Heavy, long, or frequent menstrual periods, Cancer in the esophagus, stomach, small bowel, or colon, Esophageal varices, usually from cirrhosis, The use of aspirin, ibuprofen, or arthritis medicines for a long time, which can cause gastrointestinal bleeding, Peptic ulcer disease. The body may not absorb enough iron in your diet due to:Celiac disease, Crohn disease, Gastric bypass surgery, Taking too many antacids that contain calcium . You may not get enough iron in your diet if:You are a strict vegetarian, You are an older adult and do not eat a full diet . ", "Prevention": "A balanced diet should include enough iron. Red meat, liver, and egg yolks are high sources of iron. Flour, bread, and some cereals are fortified with iron. If advised by your doctor, take iron supplements if you are not getting enough iron in your diet. ", "Treatment": "Treatment may include taking iron supplements and eating iron-rich foods.Iron supplements (most often ferrous sulfate) are needed to build up the iron stores in your body. Most of the time, your doctor or nurse will measure your iron levels before starting supplements.If you cannot take iron by mouth, you may need to take it through a vein (intravenous) or by an injection into the muscle.Pregnant and breastfeeding women will need to take extra iron because they often cannot get enough iron from their normal diets.Your hematocrit should return to normal after 2 months of iron therapy. You will need to keep taking iron for another 6 to 12 months to replace the body's iron stores in the bone marrow.Iron-rich foods include:\r\n  Chicken and turkey\r\n  , \r\n  Dried lentils, peas, and beans\r\n  , \r\n  Fish\r\n  , Meats (liver is the highest source), Peanut butter, Soybeans, Whole-grain bread . Other sources include:\r\n  Oatmeal\r\n  , \r\n  Raisins, prunes, and apricots\r\n  , \r\n  Spinach, kale, and other greens\r\n  . "}, "In vitro fertilization (IVF)": {"description": "In vitro fertilization (IVF) is the joining of a woman's egg and a man's sperm in a laboratory dish. In vitro means outside the body. Fertilization means the sperm has attached to and entered the egg."}, "Irregular sleep-wake syndrome": {"Symptoms": ["Sleeping or napping more than usual during the day", "Trouble falling asleep and staying asleep at night", "Waking up often during the night"], "Exams and Tests": "A person must have at least three abnormal sleep-wake episodes during a 24-hour period to be diagnosed with this problem. The time between episodes is usually 1 to 4 hours.If the diagnosis is not clear,\u00a0the\u00a0doctor may prescribe a device called an actigraph. The device\u00a0looks like a wristwatch, and it can tell when a person is sleeping or awake.", "description": "Irregular sleep-wake syndrome is sleeping without any real schedule.", "Causes": "This disorder is very rare. It\u00a0usually occurs in a person who has a problem with brain function and who does not have a regular routine during the day. The amount of total sleep time is normal, but the body clock loses its normal circadian cycle.People with changing work shifts and\u00a0travelers who often change time zones may also have these symptoms. These people have a different condition, such as shift work sleep disorder or jet lag syndrome.", "Treatment": "The goal of treatment is to help the person return to a normal sleep-wake cycle. This may involve:Setting up a regular daytime schedule of activities and mealtimes., Not staying in bed during the day., Using bright light therapy in the morning and taking melatonin at bedtime., Making sure the room is dark and quiet at night.. "}, "Insulin C-peptide test": {"description": "Insulin C-peptide is a blood test that measures the amount of C-peptide, a breakdown product that is created when the hormone insulin is produced and released."}, "Ileostomy - what to ask your doctor ": {"description": "Below are some questions you may want to ask your doctor or nurse to help you take care of your ileostomy or colostomy."}, "Iontophoresis": {"description": "Iontophoresis\u00a0involves passing a weak\u00a0electrical current\u00a0through the skin. Iontophoresis has a variety of uses in medicine. This article discusses the use of iontophoresis to decrease sweating by\u00a0blocking sweat\u00a0glands."}, "Infant - newborn development": {"description": "CALL YOUR HEALTH CARE PROVIDER IF:"}, "Isopropanol overdose": {"Symptoms": ["Abdominal pain", "Burns and damage to the clear covering of the front of the eye (cornea)", "Coma (decreased level of consciousness and lack of responsiveness)", "Dizziness", "Headache", "Low body temperature", "Low blood pressure", "Low blood sugar", "Nausea ", "Rapid heart rate", "Skin redness and pain", "Slowed breathing", "Slurred speech", "Throat pain", "Uncoordinated movement", "Unconsciousness", "Unresponsive reflexes", "Urination problems (too much or too little urine)", "Vomiting (may contain blood) "], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222."}, "Immune hemolytic anemia": {"description": "Immune hemolytic anemia occurs when antibodies form against the body's own red blood cells and destroy them. This happens because the immune system mistakenly recognizes these blood cells as foreign.", "Possible Complications": "Severe anemia rarely leads to death. Severe infection may occur as a complication of treatment with steroids, other medicines that suppress the immune system, or splenectomy. These treatments impair the body's ability to fight infection.", "Symptoms": ["Feeling grumpy", "Feeling weak or tired more often than usual, or with exercise", "Headaches", "Problems concentrating or thinking ", "Blue color to the whites of the eyes", "Brittle nails", "Light-headedness when you stand up", "Pale skin color (pallor)", "Shortness of breath", "Sore tongue "], "Exams and Tests": "Absolute reticulocyte count, Direct or indirect Coombs' test, Hemoglobin in the urine, LDH (level of this enzyme rises as a result of tissue damage), Red blood cell count (RBC), hemoglobin, and hematocrit, Serum bilirubin levels, Serum free hemoglobin, Serum haptoglobin. ", "Treatment": "The first treatment tried is usually a steroid medication, such as prednisone. If steroid medications do not improve the condition, treatment with intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) or removal of the spleen (splenectomy) may be considered.You may receive treatment to suppress your immune system if you do not respond to steroids and splenectomy. Medications such as azathioprine (Imuran), cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan), and rituximab (Rituxan) have been used.Blood transfusions are given with caution, because the blood may not be compatible and it may cause more red blood cell destruction.", "Prevention": "Screening for antibodies in donated blood and in the recipient may prevent hemolytic anemia related to blood transfusions. ", "Causes": "Possible causes include:Certain chemicals, drugs, and toxins, Infections, Transfusion of blood from a donor with a blood type that does not match, Certain cancers . When antibodies form against red blood cells for no reason, the condition is called idiopathic autoimmune hemolytic anemia.The antibodies may also be caused by:Complication of another disease, Past blood transfusions, Pregnancy (if the baby's blood type is different from the mother's). Risk factors are related to the causes."}, "Intracranial pressure monitoring": {"description": "Intracranial pressure monitoring uses a device, placed inside the head. The monitor senses the pressure inside the skull and sends measurements to a recording device."}, "Indwelling catheter care": {"description": "You have an indwelling catheter (tube) in your bladder. \"Indwelling\" means inside your body. This catheter drains urine from your bladder into a bag outside your body. Common reasons to have an indwelling catheter are urinary incontinence (leakage), urinary retention (not being able to urinate), surgery that made this catheter necessary, or another health problem."}, "Intestinal obstruction repair": {"description": "Intestinal obstruction repair is surgery to relieve a bowel obstruction. A bowel obstruction occurs when the contents of the intestines cannot pass through and exit the body. A complete obstruction is a surgical emergency."}, "Ions": {"description": "Ions can be created using radiation such as x-rays. Ionizing radiation is often used for diagnostic or therapeutic procedures."}, "Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP)": {"description": "ITP is sometimes called immune thrombocytopenic purpura or simply, immune thrombocytopenia.", "Possible Complications": "Sudden and severe loss of blood from the digestive tract may occur. Bleeding into the brain may also occur.", "Symptoms": ["Abnormally heavy menstruation", "Bleeding into the skin, often around the shins, causing a skin rash that looks like pinpoint red spots (petechial rash)", "Easy bruising", "Nosebleed or bleeding in the mouth"], "Exams and Tests": "Laboratory tests will be done to see how well your blood clots and to check your platelet count.A bone marrow aspiration or biopsy may also be done. ", "Treatment": "In children, the disease usually goes away without treatment. Some children may need treatment.Adults are usually started on an anti-inflammatory steroid medicine called prednisone. In some cases, surgery to remove the spleen (splenectomy) is recommended. This increases the platelet count in about half of patients. However, other drug treatments are usually recommended instead.If the disease does not get better with prednisone, other treatments may include:Medicine called danazol (Danocrine) taken by mouth, Infusions of high-dose gamma globulin (an immune factor), Drugs that suppress the immune system, Anti-RhD therapy for people with certain blood types, Drugs that stimulate the bone marrow to make more platelets. People with ITP should not take aspirin, ibuprofen, or warfarin, because these drugs interfere with platelet function or blood clotting, and bleeding may occur.", "Prevention": "There is no known way to prevent ITP.", "Causes": "ITP occurs when certain immune system cells produce antibodies against platelets. Platelets help your blood clot by clumping together to plug small holes in damaged blood vessels.The antibodies attach to the platelets. The spleen destroys the platelets that carry the antibodies.In children, the disease sometimes follows a viral infection. In adults, it is more often a chronic (long-term) disease and can occur after a viral infection, with use of certain drugs, during pregnancy, or as part of an immune disorder.ITP affects women more often than men, and is more common in children than adults. The disease affects boys and girls equally."}, "Informed consent - adults": {"description": "Or, your health care provider may explain a treatment to you. They will ask if you agree to have the treatment. Not all medical treatments require written informed consent. "}, "Immunofixation - blood": {"description": "Serum immunofixation is a lab test to identify proteins called immunoglobulins in blood. Too much of the same immunoglobulin is usually due to different types of blood cancer. Immunoglobulins are antibodies that help your body fight infection."}, "Irritable bowel syndrome - aftercare": {"description": "For some people, IBS symptoms may interfere with work, travel, and attending social events. But taking medicines and making lifestyle changes can help you manage your symptoms."}, "Isolation precautions": {"description": "Different types of isolation precautions protect against different types of germs."}, "Incontinence - resources": {"description": "Urinary incontinence::"}, "Invasive": {"description": "An invasive disease is one that spreads to surrounding tissues. An invasive procedure is one in which the body is \"invaded\" or entered by a needle, tube, device, or scope."}, "Incontinentia pigmenti achromians": {"description": "Incontinentia pigmenti achromians is a rare birth defect that causes unusual patches of light-colored (hypopigmented) skin and possible neurological and skeletal problems.", "Possible Complications": "Discomfort and walking problems due to scoliosis, Emotional distress related to the physical appearance, Intellectual disability, Seizures and resulting possible injury. ", "Symptoms": ["Crossed eyes (strabismus)", "Hearing problems", "Increased body hair (hirsutism)", "Scoliosis", "Seizures", "Streaked, whirled or mottled patches of skin on the arms, legs, and middle of the body", "Varying degrees of intellectual disability incluiding autism and learning disability\u00a0"], "Exams and Tests": "A Wood's lamp examination of the skin lesions may help confirm the diagnosis. Your\u00a0doctor may also recommend chromosome analysis or a further medical workup to discover any related medical problems.", "Treatment": "There is no treatment for the hypopigmentation. Treatment consists of treating the symptoms. Cosmetics or clothing may be used to cover the hypopigmented spots if desired. Seizures, scoliosis, and other problems are treated as necessary.", "Causes": "The cause is unknown. It is twice as common in girls than in boys."}, "Intussusception - children": {"Symptoms": ["Bloody, mucus-like bowel movement, sometimes called a \"currant jelly\" stool", "Fever", "Shock (pale color, lethargy, sweating)", "Stool mixed with blood and mucus", "Vomiting "], "Exams and Tests": "Your doctor will perform a thorough exam, which may reveal a mass in the abdomen. There may also be signs of dehydration or shock.Tests may include:Abdominal x-ray, Air or contrast enema. ", "description": "This article focuses on intussusception in children.", "Causes": "Intussusception is caused by part of the intestine being pulled inward into itself. The pressure created by the walls of the intestine pressing together causes:Decreased blood flow, Irritation, Swelling. Intussusception can block the passage of food through the intestine. If the blood supply is cut off, the segment of intestine pulled inside can die. Heavy bleeding may also occur. If a hole develops, infection, shock, and dehydration can take place very rapidly.The cause of intussusception is not known. Conditions that may lead to the problem include:Viral infection, Nodule on the lymph node, Polyp or tumor. The reason for the problem is more likely to be found in older children.Intussusception can affect both children and adults. However, most cases occur in children ages 6 months - 2 years. It affects boys four times as often as girls.", "Treatment": "The child will first be stabilized. A tube will be passed into the stomach through the nose (nasogastric tube). An intravenous (IV) line will be placed in the arm, and fluids will be given to prevent dehydration.In some cases, the bowel blockage can be treated with an air or contrast enema. This is done by a radiologist skilled with the procedure. There is a risk of bowel tearing (perforation) with this procedure. The child will need surgery if these treatments do not work. The bowel tissue can very often be saved. Dead tissue will be removed.Antibiotics may be needed to treat any infection.Intravenous feeding and fluids will be continued until the child has a normal bowel movement."}, "Ink poisoning": {"Symptoms": ["Eye irritation", "Staining of skin and mucus membranes"], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222."}, "Ileostomy and your child": {"Possible Complications": "It is normal to have some problems with your child\u2019s ileostomy. Some common ones are:Your child may have trouble with some foods., Your child may have skin problems near the ileostomy., Your child\u2019s pouch may leak or get messy.. Help your child understand how important it is take good care of their ileostomy and to clean up the bathroom after ileostomy care.", "description": "Now your child has an opening called a stoma in their belly. Waste will pass through the stoma into a pouch that collects it. You and your child will need to take care of the stoma and empty the pouch many times a day."}, "Implantable cardioverter defibrillator - discharge": {"description": "The ICD can quickly detect life-threatening abnormal heartbeats (arrhythmias). It is designed to convert any abnormal heart rhythm back to normal by sending an electrical shock to your heart. This action is called defibrillation. This device can also work as a pacemaker."}, "Interstitial keratitis": {"description": "Interstitial keratitis is inflammation of the tissue of the cornea, the clear window on the front of the eye. The condition can lead to vision loss.", "Possible Complications": "A corneal transplant is not as successful for interstitial keratitis as it is for most other corneal diseases. The presence of blood vessels in the diseased cornea brings white blood cells to the newly transplanted cornea and increases the risk of rejection.", "Symptoms": ["Eye pain", "Excessive tearing", "Sensitivity to light (photophobia) "], "Exams and Tests": "Interstitial keratitis can be easily diagnosed by slit-lamp examination of the eyes. Blood tests and chest x-rays will usually be needed to confirm the infection or disease that is causing the condition.", "Treatment": "The underlying disease must be treated. Treating the cornea with corticosteroid drops may minimize scarring and help keep the cornea clear.Once the active inflammation has passed, the cornea is left severely scarred and with abnormal blood vessels. The only way to restore vision at this stage is with a cornea transplant.", "Prevention": "Prevention consists of avoiding the infection that causes interstitial keratitis. If you do get infected, get prompt and thorough treatment and follow-up.", "Causes": "Interstitial keratitis is a serious condition in which blood vessels grow into the cornea. Such growth can cause loss of the normal clearness of the cornea. This condition is often caused by infections.Syphilis is the most common cause of interstitial keratitis, but rare causes include:Autoimmune diseases, like rheumatoid arthritis and sarcoidosis, Leprosy, Lyme disease, Tuberculosis. In the United States, most cases of syphilis are recognized and treated before this eye condition develops. However, interstitial keratitis remains the most common cause of blindness in the world."}, "Ileostomy - discharge": {"description": "Now you have an opening called a stoma in your belly. Waste will pass through the stoma into a pouch that collects it. You will need to take care of the stoma and empty the pouch many times a day."}, "Idiopathic hypercalciuria": {"description": "Idiopathic hypercalciuria is the presence of excess calcium in the urine without obvious cause. This condition can lead to kidney stones or osteoporosis."}, "Intestinal pseudo-obstruction": {"description": "Intestinal pseudo-obstruction is a condition in which there are symptoms of intestinal blockage without any physical blockage.", "Possible Complications": "Diarrhea, Rupture (perforation) of the intestine\r\n  , Vitamin deficiencies, Weight loss. ", "Symptoms": ["Abdominal pain", "Bloating\r\n  ", "Constipation", "Nausea and vomiting", "Swollen abdomen (abdominal distention)", "Weight loss"], "Exams and Tests": "During a physical exam, the health care provider will most often see abdominal bloating.Tests include:Abdominal x-ray, Anal manometry, Barium swallow, barium small bowel follow-through, or barium enema, Blood tests for nutritional or vitamin deficiencies, Colonoscopy, CT (\"Cat\") scan, Antroduodenal manometry, Gastric emptying radionuclide scan, Intestinal radionuclide scan . ", "Treatment": "Colonoscopy may be used to remove air from the large intestine., Fluids can be given through a vein (intravenous fluids) to replace fluids lost from vomiting or diarrhea., Nasogastric suction involving a nasogastric (NG) tube placed through the nose into the stomach can be used to remove air from (decompress) the bowel., Neostigmine may be used to treat intestinal pseudo-obstruction that is only in the large bowel (Ogilvie's syndrome)., Special diets often do not work. However, vitamin B12 and other vitamin supplements should be used for patients with vitamin deficiency., Stopping the medicines that may have caused the problem (such as narcotic drugs) may help.. In severe cases, surgery may be needed.", "Causes": "In primary intestinal pseudo-obstruction, the intestine is unable to contract and push food, stool, and air through the gastrointestinal tract. The disorder most often affects the small intestine, but can also occur in the large intestine.The condition may come on suddenly (acute) or over time (chronic). It is most common in children and the elderly. The cause of the problem is unknown. Therefore, it is also called idiopathic intestinal pseudo-obstruction. Idiopathic means occurring without a known reason.Risk factors include:Cerebral palsy or other nervous system (neurologic) disorders, Chronic kidney, lung, or heart disease, Staying in bed for long periods of time (bedridden), Taking narcotic (pain) medicines or other drugs that slow intestinal movements (often called anticholinergic drugs) . "}, "Iodine in diet": {"description": "Iodine is a trace mineral and a nutrient found naturally in the body."}, "Ileostomy and your diet": {"description": "People who have had an ileostomy can usually eat a normal diet. But some foods may cause problems. Foods that may be fine for some people may cause trouble for others."}, "Iris": {"description": "Inflammation of the iris is called iritis."}, "Immunizations - diabetes": {"description": "Below are some of the vaccines you need to know about. Ask your health care provider which is right for you. Also ask if you should get other vaccines."}, "Immunofixation - urine": {"description": "Urine immunofixation is a test to look for proteins in urine."}, "Ileostomy - caring for your stoma": {"description": "Now you have an opening called a stoma in your belly. Waste will pass through the stoma into a pouch that collects it. You will need to take care of your stoma and empty the pouch many times a day."}, "Inflatable artificial sphincter": {"description": "Other surgeries to treat urine leakage and incontinence include:"}, "Incidence": {"description": "Incidence shows the likelihood that a person in that population will be affected by the condition."}, "Intravenous": {"description": "Intravenous means \"within a vein.\" It usually refers to giving medications or fluids through a needle or tube inserted into a vein. This allows immediate access to the blood supply. For example, your\u00a0health care provider\u00a0may prescribe medications to be given through a vein, or an intravenous (IV) line."}, "Increased head circumference": {"description": "Increased head circumference is when the measured distance around the widest part of the skull is larger than expected for the child's age and background.", "Causes": "Benign familial macrocephaly (family tendency toward large head size), Canavan disease, Hurler syndrome, Hydrocephalus (congenital, post-traumatic, or obstructive), Intracranial bleeding, Morquio syndrome. "}, "Infant formulas": {"description": "See also:"}, "Inguinal hernia - discharge": {"description": "You may go home the same day as your surgery. Or you may spend 1 to 2 days in the hospital. It will depend on the procedure you had."}, "Interstitial lung disease": {"Symptoms": ["At first, shortness of breath may not be severe and is only noticed with exercise, climbing stairs, and other hard activities.", "Over time, you may notice it while doing less strenuous activity such as bathing or dressing, and as the disease worsens, while eating or talking. ", "Abnormal enlargement of the base of the fingernails (clubbing)", "Blue color of the lips, skin, or fingernails due to low blood oxygen levels (cyanosis) "], "Exams and Tests": "The health care provider will perform a physical exam. Dry, crackling breath sounds may be heard when listening to the chest with a stethoscope. The following tests may be done:Blood tests to check for connective tissue diseases, Bronchoscopy with or without\u00a0biopsy, Chest x-ray, CT scan of the chest, Echocardiogram\u00a0, Open lung biopsy, Measurement of the blood oxygen level at rest or when active, Pulmonary function tests, \r\n  Six minute walk test (checks how far you can walk in 6 minutes and how many times you need to stop to catch your breath). People who are heavily exposed to known causes of lung disease in the workplace are usually routinely screened for lung disease. These jobs include coal mining, sand blasting, and working on a ship.", "description": "Interstitial lung disease is a group of lung disorders in which the deep lung tissues become inflamed and then damaged.", "Causes": "The lungs contain tiny air sacs (alveoli), which is where oxygen is absorbed. These air sacs expand with each breath.The tissue around these air sacs is called the interstitium. In people with interstitial lung disease, this tissue becomes stiff or scarred, and the air sacs are not able to expand as much. As a result, not as much oxygen can get to the body.Interstitial lung disease (ILD) can occur without a known cause. This is called idiopathic ILD. Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is the most common disease of this type.There are also dozens of known causes of ILD, including:Autoimmune diseases (in which the immune system attacks the body) such as lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, sarcoidosis, and scleroderma, Lung inflammation due to breathing in a foreign substance such as certain types of dust, fungus, or mold (hypersensitivity pneumonitis), Medications (such as nitrofurantoin, sulfonamides, bleomycin, amiodarone, methotrexate, gold, infliximab, and etanercept), Radiation treatment to the chest, Working with or around asbestos, coal dust, cotton dust, and silica dust (called occupational lung disease) . Cigarette smoking may increase the risk of developing some forms of ILD and may cause the disease to be more severe.", "Treatment": "Treatment depends on the cause of the disease. Drugs that suppress the immune system and reduce swelling in the lungs are prescribed if an autoimmune disease is causing the problem. For persons who have the disease from unknown cause, there is no known effective therapy.If there is no specific treatment for the condition, the aim is to make you more comfortable and support lung function:If you smoke, ask your doctor or nurse about how to stop smoking., People with low blood oxygen levels will receive oxygen therapy in their home. A respiratory therapist will help you set up the oxygen. Families need to learn proper oxygen storage and safety.. Lung rehabilitation can provide support, and help you learn:Different breathing methods, How to set up\u00a0your home to save energy, How to eat enough calories and nutrients, How to stay active and strong . Some patients with advanced ILD may need a lung transplant."}, "Inactivated or Recombinant Flu Vaccine, 2014-2015 - What You Need to Know": {"description": "Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases"}, "IV treatment at home": {"description": "Home intravenous antibiotic therapy; Central venous catheter - home; Peripheral venous catheter - home; Port - home; PICC line - home; Infusion therapy - home"}, "Infertility": {"Exams and Tests": "Deciding when to get treated for infertility depends on your age. Doctors often suggest that women under 30 try to get pregnant on their own for 1 year before getting tested.Infertility testing involves a medical history and physical exam for both partners.Blood and imaging tests are most often needed. In women, these may include:Blood tests to check hormone levels, including progesterone and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), Measurement of body temperature every morning to see if the ovaries are releasing eggs, FSH and clomid challenge test, Antimullerian hormone testing (AMH), Hysterosalpingography (HSG), Pelvic ultrasound, Laparoscopy, Luteinizing hormone urine test (ovulation prediction), Thyroid function tests. Tests in men may include:Sperm testing, Exam of the testes and penis, Ultrasound of the male genitals (sometimes done), Blood tests to check hormone levels, Testicular biopsy (rarely done) . ", "Prevention": "Preventing sexually transmitted infections (STIs), such as gonorrhea and chlamydia, may reduce your risk of infertility.Maintaining a healthy diet, weight, and lifestyle may increase your chance\u00a0of getting pregnant and having a healthy pregnancy.", "description": "There are two types of infertility:", "Causes": "Many physical and emotional factors can cause infertility. It may be due to problems in the woman, man, or both.FEMALE INFERTILITYFemale infertility may occur when:A fertilized egg or embryo does not survive once it attaches to the lining of the womb (uterus), The fertilized egg does not attach to the lining of the uterus, The eggs cannot move from the ovaries to the womb, The ovaries have problems producing eggs . Female infertility may be caused by: Autoimmune disorders, such as antiphospholipid syndrome (APS), Birth defects that affect the reproductive tract, Cancer or tumor, Clotting disorders, Diabetes, Drinking too much alcohol, Exercising too much, Eating disorders or poor nutrition, Growths (such as fibroids or polyps) in the uterus and cervix, Medicines such as chemotherapy drugs, Hormone imbalances, Obesity, Older age, Ovarian cysts and polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), Pelvic infection or pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), Scarring from sexually transmitted infection, abdominal surgery or endometriosis, Smoking, Surgery to prevent pregnancy (tubal ligation) or failure of tubal ligation reversal (reanastomisis) , Thyroid disease . MALE INFERTILITYMale infertility may be due to:Decreased number of sperm, Blockage that prevents the sperm from being released, Defects in the sperm. Male infertility can be caused by:Birth defects, Cancer treatments, including chemotherapy and radiation , Exposure to high heat for prolonged periods, Heavy use of alcohol, marijuana, or cocaine, Hormone imbalance, Impotence, Infection, Medicines such as cimetidine, spironolactone, and nitrofurantoin, Obesity, Older age, Retrograde ejaculation, Scarring from sexually transmitted infections, injury, or surgery, Smoking, Toxins in the environment, Vasectomy or failure of vasectomy reversal. Healthy couples under age 30 who have sex regularly will have a 25-30% per month chance of getting pregnant each month. A woman is most fertile in her early 20s. After age 35, the chance a woman can get pregnant drops greatly after age 35 (and especially after age 40). The age when fertility starts to decline varies from woman to woman.", "Treatment": "Treatment depends on the cause of infertility. It may involve:Education and counseling about the condition, Fertility treatments such as intrauterine insemination (IUI) and in vitro fertilization (IVF), Medicines to treat infections and clotting disorders, Medicines that help the growth and release of eggs from the ovaries. Couples can increase the chances of becoming pregnant each month by having sex at least every 3 days before and during ovulation. Ovulation occurs about 2 weeks before the next menstrual cycle (period) starts. Therefore, if a woman gets her period every 28 days the couple should have sex at least every 3 days between the 10th and 18th day after her period starts.Having sex before ovulation occurs is especially helpful. Sperm can live inside a woman's body for at least 3 days. , However, a woman's egg can only be fertilized by the sperm for a few hours after it is released. . Women who are under or overweight, may increase their chances of becoming pregnant by getting to a healthier weight."}, "Imperforate anus repair": {"description": "An imperforate anus defect prevents most or all stool from passing out of the rectum.\u00a0 "}, "Inborn errors of metabolism": {"description": "Health care providers and registered dietitians can help create a diet appropriate for the specific disease."}, "Ibuprofen dosing for children": {"description": "Taking ibuprofen can help children feel better when they have colds or minor injuries. As with all drugs, it is important to give children the correct dose. Ibuprofen is safe when taken as directed. But taking too much of this medicine can be harmful."}, "Incense": {"Symptoms": ["Blurred vision", "Burning pain in the throat", "Burns to the eye ", "Abdominal pain", "Diarrhea (watery, bloody)", "Vomiting", "Low blood pressure", "Methemoglobinemia (inability of blood to carry oxygen)", "Difficulty breathing", "Rapid breathing ", "Coma (decreased level of consciousness and lack of responsiveness)", "Euphoria, a feeling like being drunk (intoxicated)", "Seizures", "Stupor", "Blue skin or fingers", "Rash "], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222."}, "Increased intracranial pressure": {"description": "Increased intracranial pressure is a rise in the pressure inside the skull that can result from or cause brain injury.", "Possible Complications": "Death, Permanent neurological problems, Reversible neurological problems, Seizures, Stroke. ", "Symptoms": ["Drowsiness", "Separated sutures on the skull", "Bulging of the soft spot on top of the head (bulging fontanelle)", "Vomiting", "Behavior changes", "Decreased consciousness", "Headache", "Lethargy", "Neurological symptoms, including weakness, numbness, eye movement problems, and double vision", "Seizures", "Vomiting"], "Exams and Tests": "A health care provider will usually make this diagnosis at the patient's bedside in an emergency room or hospital. Primary care doctors may sometimes spot early symptoms of increased intracranial pressure such as headache, seizures, or other nervous system problems.An MRI or CT scan of the head can usually determine the cause of increased intracranial pressure and confirm the diagnosis.Intracranial pressure may be measured during a spinal tap (lumbar puncture). It can also be measured directly by using a device that is drilled through the skull or a tube (catheter) that is inserted into a hollow area in the brain called the ventricle.", "Treatment": "Sudden increased intracranial pressure is an emergency. The person will be treated in the intensive care unit of the hospital. The health care team will measure and monitor the patient's neurological and vital signs, including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.Treatment may include:Breathing support, Draining of cerebrospinal fluid to lower pressure in the brain, Medicines to decrease swelling, Removal of part of the skull, especially in the first 2 days of a stroke that involves brain swelling. If a tumor, hemorrhage, or other problem has caused the increase in intracranial pressure, these problems will be treated.", "Prevention": "This condition usually cannot be prevented. If you have a persistent headache, blurred vision, changes in your level of alertness, neurological problems, or seizures, seek medical\u00a0help as soon as possible.", "Causes": "Increased intracranial pressure can be due to a rise in pressure of the cerebrospinal fluid. This is the fluid that surrounds the brain and spinal cord. Increase in intracranial pressure\u00a0can also be due to\u00a0a rise in\u00a0pressure within the brain itself. This can be caused by a mass (such as a tumor), bleeding into the brain or fluid around the brain, or swelling within the brain itself.An increase in intracranial pressure is a serious medical problem. The pressure can damage the brain or spinal cord by pressing on important brain structures and by restricting blood flow into the brain.Many conditions can increase intracranial pressure. Common causes include:Aneurysm rupture and subarachnoid hemorrhage, Brain tumor, Encephalitis, Head injury, Hydrocephalus (increased fluid around the brain), Hypertensive brain hemorrhage, Intraventricular hemorrhage, Meningitis, Subdural hematoma, Status epilepticus, Stroke. "}, "Ichthyosis vulgaris": {"description": "Ichthyosis vulgaris is a skin disorder passed down through families that leads to dry, scaly skin.", "Possible Complications": "A bacterial skin infection may develop if scratching causes openings in the skin.", "Symptoms": ["Dry skin, severe", "Scaly skin ( scales)", "Possible skin thickening", "Mild itching of the skin "], "Exams and Tests": "Your doctor can usually diagnose this condition by looking at your skin. Tests may be needed to rule out other possible causes of dry, scaly skin.Your doctor will ask if you have a family history of similar skin dryness.", "Treatment": "Your doctor will recommend using heavy-duty moisturizers. Creams and ointments work better than lotions. Apply these to moist skin immediately after bathing. You should use mild, non-drying soaps. Your doctor may tell you to use hydrating-moisturizing creams that contain keratolytic chemicals such as lactic acid, salicylic acid, and urea. These chemicals\u00a0help skin shed normally.", "Causes": "Ichthyosis vulgaris is one of the most common of the inherited skin disorders. It may begin in early childhood. The condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. That means you only need to get the abnormal gene from one parent in order for you to inherit the disease.The condition is often more noticeable in the winter. It may occur along with atopic dermatitis, asthma,\u00a0keratosis pilaris (small bumps on the back of the arms), or other skin disorders."}, "Intrinsic factor": {"description": "Intrinsic factor is a protein that helps your intestines absorb vitamin B12. It is made by cells in the stomach lining. "}, "Interstitial cystitis - resources": {"description": "The following organizations are good resources for information on insterstitial cystitis:"}, "Insomnia - overview": {"Symptoms": ["Trouble falling asleep on most nights", "Feeling tired during the day or falling asleep during the day", "Not feeling refreshed when you wake up", "Waking up several times during sleep ", "Make you tired and unfocused, so it is hard to do daily activities.", "Put you at risk for auto accidents. If you are driving and feel sleepy, pull over and take a break. "], "description": "The quality of your sleep is as important as how much sleep you get.", "Causes": "Sleep habits we learned as children may affect our sleep behaviors as adults. Poor sleep or lifestyle habits that may cause insomnia or make it worse include:Going to bed at different times each night, Daytime napping, Poor sleeping environment, such as too much noise or light, Spending too much time in bed while awake, Working evenings or night shifts, Not getting enough exercise, Using the television, computer, or a mobile device in bed . The use of some medications and drugs may also affect sleep, including:Alcohol or other drugs, Heavy smoking, Too much caffeine throughout the day or drinking caffeine late in the day, Getting used to certain types of sleep medicines, Some cold medicines and diet pills, Other over-the-counter or prescription medicines, herbs, or supplements . Physical, social, and mental health issues can affect sleep patterns, including:Bipolar disorder., Overactive thyroid gland., Waking up at night to use the bathroom., Feeling sad or depressed. (Often, insomnia is the symptom that causes people with depression to seek medical help.), Physical pain or discomfort., Stress and anxiety, whether it is short-term or long-term. For some people, the stress caused by insomnia makes it even harder to fall asleep. . With age, sleep patterns tend to change. Many people find that aging causes them to have a harder time falling asleep, and that they wake up more often.", "Treatment": "Not getting 8 hours of sleep every night does not mean your health is at risk. Different people have different sleep needs. Some people do fine on 6 hours of sleep a night. Others only do well if they get 10 to 11 hours of sleep a night.Treatment often begins by reviewing any drugs or medical conditions that may be causing or worsen insomnia, such as:Enlarged prostate gland, causing men to wake up at night, Pain or discomfort from arthritis or nerve disorders . You should also think about lifestyle and sleep habits that may affect your sleep. This is called sleep hygiene. Making some changes in your sleep habits may improve or solve your insomnia.Using medicine to treat insomnia can sometimes be useful. But there can be risks. It may help to see a psychiatrist or another mental health provider to test for mood or anxiety disorders that can cause insomnia.They may use talk therapy, such as cognitive-behavioral therapy, to help you gain control over anxiety or depression., A psychiatrist may also prescribe antidepressants or another medicine to help you sleep and to address any mood or anxiety disorders you might have. . "}, "Intravenous pyelogram": {"description": "An intravenous pyelogram (IVP) is a special x-ray examination of the kidneys, bladder, and ureters (the tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder)."}, "Infant reflexes": {"description": "A reflex is a muscle reaction that happens automatically in response to stimulation. Certain sensations or movements produce\u00a0specific muscle responses.", "Causes": "Infant reflexes can occur in adults who have:Brain damage, Stroke . "}, "Ink remover poisoning": {"Symptoms": ["Brain damage", "Decreased breathing", "Stupor", "Unconsciousness", "Blindness", "Blurred vision", "Enlarged (dilated) pupils", "Abdominal pain", "Nausea", "Severe bleeding and vomiting blood (hemorrhage)", "Vomiting", "Convulsions", "Low blood pressure", "Severe change in the level of acid in the blood (pH balance), which leads to the failure of many organs", "Weakness", "Kidney failure", "Rapid, shallow breathing", "Stopped breathing (see breathing difficulties - first aid)", "Leg cramps", "Coma (decreased level of consciousness and lack of responsiveness) ", "Dizziness", "Fatigue", "Headache", "Blue skin, lips, or fingernails (cyanosis)"], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222."}, "Injury - kidney and ureter": {"description": "Injury to the kidney and ureter is damage to the organs of the upper urinary tract.", "Possible Complications": "Complications may include:Sudden kidney failure, one or both kidneys, Bleeding (may be minor or severe), Bruising of the kidney, Chronic kidney failure, one or both kidneys, Infection (peritonitis, sepsis), Pain, Renal artery stenosis, Renal hypertension, Shock, Urinary tract infection. ", "Symptoms": ["Abdominal pain and swelling", "Severe flank pain and back pain", "Blood in the urine", "Drowsiness, decreased alertness, including coma", "Decreased urine output or inability to urinate", "Fever", "Increased heart rate", "Nausea, vomiting", "Skin that is pale or cool to touch", "Sweating", "Constipation (can occur with toxic injury or lead poisoning)", "Irritability", "Weight loss "], "Exams and Tests": "The health care provider will examine you and ask about your medical history and symptoms. You will be asked about any recent illness and if you have come into contact with toxic substances. The exam may show:Excess bleeding (hemorrhage), Extreme tenderness over the kidney, Shock, including rapid heart rate or falling blood pressure, Signs of kidney failure . Tests that may be done include:Abdominal CT scan, Abdominal MRI, Abdominal ultrasound, Angiography of the kidney artery or vein, Blood electrolytes, Blood tests to look for toxic substances, Complete blood count (CBC), Intravenous pyelogram (IVP), Kidney function tests, Retrograde pyelogram, Kidney x-ray, Renal scan, Urinalysis. ", "Treatment": "The goals are to treat emergency symptoms and prevent or treat complications. You may need to stay in a hospital.Treatments for a kidney injury may include:Bed rest for 1\u00a0to 2 weeks or until bleeding is reduced, Close observation and treatment for symptoms of kidney failure, Diet changes, Medicines to treat damage caused by toxic substances or illnesses (for example, chelation therapy for lead poisoning or allopurinol to lower uric acid in the blood due to gout), Pain medicines, Eliminating medicines or exposure to substances that may have injured the kidney, Drugs such as corticosteroids or immunosuppressants if the injury was caused by inflammation, Treatment of acute kidney failure . Sometimes, surgery is needed. This may include:Repairing a \"fractured\" or torn kidney, torn blood vessels, torn ureter, or similar injury, Removing the entire kidney (nephrectomy), draining the space around the kidney, or stopping the bleeding via arterial catheterization (angioembolization), Placing a stent. ", "Prevention": "You can help prevent injury to the kidneys and ureter by taking these steps: Be aware of substances that can cause lead poisoning. These include old paints, vapors from working with lead-coated metals, and alcohol distilled in recycled car radiators., Take all your medicines properly, including ones you buy without a prescription (over-the-counter). , Treating gout and other illnesses as instructed by your health care provider., Use safety equipment during work and play., Use cleaning products, solvents, and fuels as directed. Make sure the area is well-ventilated, because the fumes may also be toxic., Wear seat belts and drive safely.. ", "Causes": "The kidneys are located in the flank (back of the upper abdomen at either side of the spine). They are protected by the spine, lower rib cage, and strong muscles of the back. This location protects the kidneys from many outside forces. The kidneys are also surrounded by a layer of fat that helps to cushion them.The kidneys have a large blood supply, and injury can lead to severe bleeding. The many layers of padding help prevent kidney injury. Kidneys may be injured by damage to the blood vessels that supply or drain them, including:Aneurysm, Arterial blockage, Arteriovenous fistula, Renal vein thrombosis (clotting), Trauma . Kidney injuries may also be caused by:Angiomyolipoma, a noncancerous tumor, Autoimmune disorders, Bladder outlet obstruction, Cancer of the kidney, pelvic organs (ovaries or uterus in women), or colon, Diabetes, Buildup of body waste products such as uric acid (which can occur with gout or treatment of bone marrow, lymph node, or other disorders), Exposure to toxic substances such as lead, cleaning products, solvents, fuels, or long-term use of high-dose pain medications (analgesic nephropathy), High blood pressure and other medical conditions that affect the kidneys, Inflammation caused by immune responses to medications, infection, or other disorders, Medical procedures such as kidney biopsy, or nephrostomy tube placement, Ureteropelvic junction obstruction, Ureteral obstruction . The ureters are the tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder. Ureteral injuries may be caused by:Complications from medical procedures, Diseases such as retroperitoneal fibrosis, retroperitoneal sarcomas, or cancers that spread to the lymph nodes near the ureters, Kidney stone disease, Radiation to the belly area, Trauma . "}, "IQ testing": {"description": "IQ (intelligence quotient) testing is a series of exams used to determine your general intelligence in relation to other people the same age."}, "Intracardiac electrophysiology study (EPS)": {"description": "Intracardiac electrophysiology study (EPS) is a test to look at how well the heart's electrical signals are working. It is used to check for abnormal heartbeats or heart rhythms."}}