{"Xanthoma": {"description": "Xanthoma is a skin condition in which certain fats build up under the surface of the skin.", "Symptoms": [], "Exams and Tests": "Your health care provider will examine the skin. Usually, a diagnosis of xanthoma can be made by looking at your skin. A biopsy of the growth will show a fatty deposit.You may have blood tests done to check lipid levels, liver function, and for diabetes.", "Causes": "Xanthomas are common,\u00a0especially among older adults and people with high blood lipids.Xanthomas vary in size. Some are very small. Others are bigger than 3 inches in diameter. They appear anywhere on the body, but are most often seen on the elbows, joints, tendons, knees, hands, feet, or buttocks.Xanthomas may be a sign of a medical condition that involves an increase in blood lipids. Such conditions include:Certain cancers, Diabetes, Hyperlipidemia, Inherited metabolic disorders such as familial hypercholesterolemia, Primary biliary cirrhosis, Pancreatitis, Hypothyroidism. Xanthelasma palpebra, a common type of xanthoma that appears on the eyelids and may occur without any underlying medical condition, is not necessarily associated with elevated cholesterol or lipids.", "Prevention": "Control of blood lipids, including triglycerides and cholesterol levels, may help reduce development of xanthomas.", "Treatment": "If you have a disease that causes increased blood lipids, treating the condition may help reduce the development of xanthomas.If the growth bothers you, your doctor may remove it.\u00a0But xanthomas may come back after surgery. "}, "Xerosis": {"Symptoms": [], "Prevention": "Do not expose your skin to water more than needed., Use cool bath water., Choose\u00a0gentle skin cleansers that are free of dyes and perfumes.. ", "description": "Xerosis is an abnormal dryness of the skin or mucus membranes.", "Causes": "Dry skin usually gets worse during the winter.Older people are usually affected more by this condition.", "Treatment": "Treatments include:Moisturizers, especially creams or lotions that contain urea and lactic acid, Topical steroids -- for areas that get very inflamed and itchy. "}, "Xeroderma pigmentosum": {"description": "Xeroderma\u00a0pigmentosum is a rare condition passed down through families in which the skin and tissue covering the eye are extremely sensitive to ultraviolet light.", "Possible Complications": "Change in appearance of skin (disfigurement), Skin cancer. ", "Symptoms": ["Sunburn that does not heal after just a little bit of sun exposure", "Blistering after just a little bit of sun exposure", "Spider-like blood vessels under the skin", "Patches of discolored skin that get worse", "Crusting of the skin", "Scaling of the skin", "Oozing raw skin surface", "Discomfort when being in bright light (photophobia)", "Skin cancer"], "Exams and Tests": "The doctor will perform a physical exam and ask if you have a family history of xeroderma pigmentosum.An eye exam may show:Clouding of the cornea, Keratitis, Lid tumors, Blepharitis. The following tests can help diagnose the condition in a baby before the birth:Amniocentesis, Chorionic villous sampling, Culture of amniotic cells . The following tests can help diagnose the disorder after the birth of the child:Culture of skin fibroblasts, Skin biopsy. ", "Treatment": "Children with this condition need total protection from sunlight. Even the light coming through windows or from fluorescent bulbs is dangerous.When these children go out in the sun, they need to wear protective clothing.Use high protection (SPF 70 or greater) sunscreen and very dark, UV sunglasses. Your doctor may prescribe medicine to help prevent certain precancerous growths from becoming skin cancers.", "Prevention": "Experts recommend genetic counseling for persons with a family history of xeroderma pigmentosum who wish to have children.", "Causes": "Xeroderma pigmentosum is an autosomal recessive disorder. This means you must have two copies of an abnormal gene in order for the disease or trait to develop.Ultraviolet light, such as\u00a0from sunlight, damages the genetic material (DNA) in skin cells. Normally, the body repairs this damage. But in persons with xeroderma pigmentosum, the body does not fix the damage. As a result, the skin gets very thin and patches of varying color (splotchy pigmentation) appear.The condition also causes spidery blood vessels in the skin (telangiectasia) and skin cancer. Skin cancer often occurs before the child is 5 years old."}, "X-ray": {"description": "An x-ray machine sends\u00a0individual x-ray particles through the body. The images are recorded on a computer or film."}, "X-ray - skeleton": {"description": "A skeletal x-ray is an imaging test used to look at the bones. It is used to detect fractures, tumors, or conditions that cause wearing away (degeneration) of the bone."}}