{"Urine pH test": {"description": "A urine pH test measures the level of acid\u00a0in urine."}, "Uric acid - urine": {"description": "Uric acid level can also be checked using a blood test."}, "UPJ obstruction": {"description": "Ureteropelvic junction (UPJ) obstruction is a blockage at the point where part of the kidney attaches to one of the tubes to the bladder (ureters). This blocks the flow of urine out of the kidney.", "Possible Complications": "If untreated, UPJ obstruction can lead to permanent loss of kidney function (kidney failure).Kidney stones or infection may occur in the affected kidney even after treatment.", "Symptoms": ["Back or flank pain", "Bloody urine (hematuria)", "Lump in the abdomen (abdominal mass)", "Kidney infection", "Poor growth in infants (failure to thrive)", "Urinary tract infection, usually with fever", "Vomiting"], "Exams and Tests": "An ultrasound during pregnancy may show kidney problems in the unborn baby.Tests after birth may include:BUN, Creatinine clearance, CT scan, Electrolytes, IVP - less utilized tests, CT urogram - scan of both kidneys and ureters with IV contrast, Nuclear scan of kidneys, Voiding cystourethrogram. ", "Treatment": "Surgery to correct the blockage allows urine to flow normally. Most of the time, open (invasive) surgery is performed in infants. Adults may be treated with less-invasive procedures. These procedures involve much smaller surgical cuts than open surgery, and may include:Endoscopic (retrograde) technique does not require a surgical cut on the skin. Instead, a small instrument is placed into the urethra. This allows the surgeon to open the blockage from the inside., Percutaneous (antegrade) technique involves a small surgical cut on the side of the body between the ribs and the hip., Pyeloplasty removes scar tissue from the blocked area and connects the healthy part of the kidney to the healthy ureter. . Laparoscopy has also been used to treat UPJ obstruction in children and adults who have not had success with other procedures.A tube called a stent may be placed to drain urine from the kidney until the surgery heals. A nephrostomy tube, which is placed in the side of the body\u00a0to drain urine, may also be needed for a short time after the surgery. This type of tube may also be used to treat\u00a0a bad infection\u00a0before surgery.", "Causes": "UPJ obstruction mostly occurs in children. It often happens\u00a0when a baby is still growing in the womb. This is called a congenital condition (present from birth). The blockage is caused when there is a narrowing of area between the ureter and the part of the kidney called the renal pelvis. Urine can build up and damage the kidney as a result.The condition can also be an abnormal blood vessel over the ureter. In older children and adults, the problem may be due to scar tissue, infection, earlier treatments for a blockage, or kidney stones.UPJ obstruction is the cause of most urinary obstructions in children. It is now commonly detected before birth with\u00a0ultrasound tests. In some cases, the condition may not show up until after birth. Symptoms may include an abdominal mass or a urinary tract infection. Surgery may be needed early in life if the problem is severe. Most of the time, surgery is not needed until later. Some cases do not require surgery at all."}, "Urinary tract infection - children": {"description": "The infection can affect different parts of the urinary tract, including the: ", "Symptoms": ["Blood in the urine", "Cloudy urine", "Foul or strong urine odor", "Frequent or urgent need to urinate", "General ill feeling (malaise)", "Pain or burning with urination", "Pressure or pain in the lower pelvis or lower back", "Wetting problems after the child has been toilet trained ", "Chills with shaking", "Fever", "Flushed, warm, or reddened skin", "Nausea", "Pain in the side (flank) or back", "Severe pain in the belly area", "Vomiting "], "Exams and Tests": "A urine sample is needed to diagnose a UTI in a child. The sample is examined under a microscope and sent to a lab for a urine culture.It may be hard to get a urine sample in a child who is not toilet trained. The test cannot be done using a wet diaper. Ways to collect a urine sample in a very young child include:Urine collection bag. A special plastic bag is placed over the child's penis or vagina to catch the urine. This is not the best method because the sample may become contaminated., Catheterized specimen urine culture. A plastic tube (catheter) placed into the tip of the penis in boys, or straight into the urethra in girls, collects urine right from the bladder., Suprapubic urine collection. A needle is placed through the skin of the lower abdomen and muscles into the bladder. It is used to collect urine. . If this is your child's first UTI, imaging tests may be done to find the cause of the infection or check for kidney damage. Tests may include:Kidney ultrasound, X-ray taken while the child is urinating (voiding cystourethrogram) . These studies may be done while the child has an infection. Most often, they are done weeks to several months later.Your health care provider will consider many things when deciding if and when a special study is needed, including:The child's age and history of other UTIs (infants and younger children usually need follow-up tests), The severity of the infection and how well it responds to treatment, Other medical problems or physical defects the child may have . ", "Causes": "Urinary tract infections (UTIs) can occur when bacteria get into the bladder or the kidneys. These bacteria are common on the skin around the anus. They can also be present near the vagina.Normally, there are no bacteria in the urinary tract. However, some things make it easier for bacteria to enter or stay in the urinary tract. These include:A problem in the urinary tract, called vesicoureteral reflux. This condition,\u00a0which is most often present at birth, allows urine to flow back up into the ureters and kidneys., Brain or nervous system illnesses (such as myelomeningocele, spinal cord injury, hydrocephalus) that make it harder to empty the bladder, Bubble baths or tight-fitting clothes (girls), Changes or birth defects in the structure of the urinary tract, Not urinating often enough during the day, Wiping from back (near the anus) to front after going to the bathroom. In girls, this can bring bacteria to the opening where the urine comes out.. UTIs are more common in girls. They may occur often around age 3, as\u00a0children\u00a0begin toilet training. Boys who are not circumcised have a slightly higher risk of UTIs before age 1.", "Prevention": "Things you can do to prevent UTIs include:Avoid giving your child bubble baths., Have your child wear loose-fitting underpants and clothing., Increase your child's intake of fluids., Keep your child's genital area clean to prevent bacteria from entering through the urethra., Teach your child to go the bathroom several times every day., Teach your child to wipe the genital area from front to back to reduce the spread of bacteria. . To prevent recurrent UTIs, the health care provider may recommend low-dose antibiotics after the first symptoms have gone away. ", "Treatment": "In children, UTIs should be treated quickly with antibiotics to protect the kidneys. Any child under 6 months old or who has other complications should see a specialist right away.Younger infants will most often need to stay in the hospital and be given antibiotics through a vein. Older infants and children are treated with antibiotics by mouth. If this is not possible, they may need to get treated in the hospital.Your child should drink plenty of fluids when being treated for a urinary tract infection.Some children may be treated with antibiotics for periods as long as 6 months to 2 years. This treatment is more likely when the child has had repeat infections or vesicoureteral reflux. After antibiotics are finished, your child's health care provider may ask you to bring your child back to do another urine test. This may be needed to make sure that bacteria are no longer in the bladder."}, "Urine - bloody ": {"description": "Blood in your urine is called hematuria. The amount may be very small and only detected with urine tests or under a microscope. In other cases, the blood is visible. It often turns the toilet water red or pink. Or, you may see spots of blood in the water after urinating.", "Causes": "There are many possible causes of blood in the urine. Bloody urine is may be due to a problem in your kidneys or other parts of the urinary tract, such as:Cancer of the bladder or kidney, Infection of the bladder, kidney, prostate, or urethra, Inflammation of the bladder, urethra, prostate, or kidney (glomerulonephritis), Injury to the bladder or kidney, Kidney or bladder stones, Kidney disease after strep throat (post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis) -- a common cause of blood in the urine in children, Kidney failure, Polycystic kidney disease, Recent urinary tract procedure such as catheterization, circumcision, surgery, or kidney biopsy. If there is no problem with your kidneys, urinary tract, prostate, or genitals, your doctor may check to see if you have a bleeding disorder. Causes from blood disorders include:Bleeding disorders (such as hemophilia), Blood clot in the kidneys, Blood thinning medications (such as aspirin or warfarin), Sickle cell disease, Thrombocytopenia (low numbers of platelets) . Blood that looks like it is in the urine may actually be coming from other sources, such as: The vagina (in women), Ejaculation, often due to a prostate problem (in men), A bowel movement . The urine can also turn a red color from certain drugs, beets, or other foods."}, "Ureteral retrograde brush biopsy": {"description": "Ureteral retrograde brush biopsy is a procedure that takes a small sample of tissue from the lining of the kidney or ureter (tube that connects a kidney to the bladder). The tissue is sent to a lab for testing. "}, "Urticaria pigmentosa": {"description": "Urticaria pigmentosa is a skin disease that produces patches of darker skin (lesions) and\u00a0very bad\u00a0itching. Hives can develop when these skin areas are rubbed.\u00a0", "Possible Complications": "The main problems are discomfort from itching and concern about the appearance of the spots.\u00a0Other problems such as diarrhea and fainting are rare.Certain medicines may trigger flares of urticaria pigmentosa. Discuss these with your health care provider.Bee stings may also cause a bad allergic reaction in people with urticaria pigmentosa. Ask your\u00a0provider if you should carry an epinephrine kit to\u00a0use if you get a\u00a0bee sting.", "Symptoms": ["Diarrhea", "Fainting (uncommon)", "Headache", "Rapid heartbeat\u00a0 "], "Exams and Tests": "Tests to check for this condition are:Skin biopsy to\u00a0look for a higher\u00a0number of mast cells, Urine histamine (histamines are chemicals your\u00a0body produces\u00a0as a response to some conditions)\u00a0, Blood tests for blood cell counts and blood tryptase levels (tryptase is an enzyme found in mast cells). ", "Treatment": "Antihistamine medicines can help relieve symptoms such as itching and flushing. Talk to your health care provider about which type of antihistamine\u00a0to use. Your\u00a0provider may prescribe other kinds of medicine to treat\u00a0symptoms of severe and unusual forms of urticaria pigmentosa.", "Causes": "Urticaria pigmentosa occurs when there are too many inflammatory cells (mast cells) in the skin.Urticaria pigmentosa is most\u00a0common in children.\u00a0It can also occur in adults."}, "Ureterocele": {"description": "A ureterocele is a birth defect.", "Possible Complications": "Complications may include:Long term bladder damage (incontinence/urinary retention), Long term kidney damage, including loss of function in one kidney, Urinary tract infection that keeps coming back. ", "Symptoms": ["Abdominal pain", "Back pain that may be only on one side", "Severe side (flank) pain and spasms that may reach to the groin, genitals, and thigh", "Blood in the urine", "Burning pain while urinating (dysuria)", "Fever", "Foul-smelling urine", "Frequent and urgent urination", "Lump (mass) in the abdomen that can be felt", "Ureterocele tissue falls down (prolapse) through the female urethra and into the vagina", "Urinary incontinence", "Urinary tract infection"], "Exams and Tests": "Large ureteroceles are often diagnosed earlier than smaller ones. A ureterocele may be discovered in a pregnancy ultrasound before the baby is born. Some people with ureteroceles do not know they have the condition. Often, the problem is found later in life due to kidney stones or infection.A urinalysis may reveal blood in the urine or signs of urinary tract infection.The following tests may be done:Abdominal ultrasound, CT scan of the abdomen, Cystoscopy (examination of the inside of the bladder), Pyelogram, Radionuclide renal scan, Voiding cystourethrogram. Blood pressure may be high if there is kidney damage.", "Treatment": "Antibiotics are often given to prevent further infections until surgery can be done.The goal of treatment is to eliminate of the blockage. Drains placed in the ureter or renal area (stents) may provide short-term relief of symptoms.Surgery to repair the ureterocele cures the condition in most cases. Surgery involves making a cut into the ureterocele or removing the ureterocele and reattaching the ureter to the bladder. The type of surgery depends on your age, overall health, and extent of the blockage.", "Causes": "A ureterocele occurs in the lower part of the ureter, where the tube enters the bladder. The swollen area prevents urine from moving freely into the bladder. The urine collects in the ureter and stretches its walls. It expands like a water balloon. A ureterocele can also cause urine to flow backward from the bladder to the kidney. This is called reflux.Ureteroceles occur in about 1 in 500 to 1 in 4,000 people. Ureteroceles are equally common in both the left and right ureters."}, "Urostomy pouches and supplies": {"description": "Cystectomy - urostomy; Urostomy bag; Ostomy appliance; Urinary ostomy"}, "Using your shoulder after surgery": {"description": "You had surgery on your shoulder to repair a muscle, tendon, or cartilage tear. The surgeon may have removed damaged tissue. You will need to know how to take care of your shoulder as it heals, and how to make it stronger."}, "Urine culture": {"description": "It can be used to check for a urinary tract infection in adults and children. "}, "Urinary casts": {"description": "Urinary casts may be made up of white blood cells, red blood cells, kidney cells, or substances such as protein or fat. The content of a cast can help tell your health care provider whether your kidney is healthy or abnormal."}, "Urinary catheter - infants": {"description": "There is a small risk of injury to the urethra or the bladder when the catheter is inserted. Urinary catheters that are left in place for more than a few days increase the risk for a bladder or kidney infection."}, "Unstable angina": {"description": "Angina is a type of chest discomfort caused by poor blood flow through the blood vessels (coronary vessels) of the heart muscle (myocardium).", "Possible Complications": "Unstable angina may lead to:Abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias), A heart attack, Heart failure. ", "Symptoms": ["Chest pain that you may also feel in the shoulder, arm, jaw, neck, back, or other area", "Discomfort that feels like tightness, squeezing, crushing, burning, choking, or aching", "Discomfort that occurs at rest and does not easily go away when you take medicine", "Shortness of breath", "Sweating ", "Starts to feel different, is more severe, comes more often, or occurs with less activity or while you are at rest", "Lasts longer than 15 - 20 minutes", "Occurs without cause (for example, while you are asleep or sitting quietly)", "Does not respond well to a medicine called nitroglycerin", "Occurs with a drop in blood pressure or shortness of breath "], "Exams and Tests": "The doctor will do a physical exam and check your blood pressure. The doctor may hear abnormal sounds, such as a heart murmur or irregular heartbeat, when listening to your chest with a stethoscope.Tests for angina include:Blood tests to show if you have heart tissue damage or are at a high risk for heart attack, including troponin I and T-00745, creatine phosphokinase (CPK), and myoglobin, ECG, Echocardiography, Stress tests, such as exercise tolerance test (stress test or treadmill test), nuclear stress test, or stress echocardiogram, Coronary angiography. This test involves taking pictures of the heart arteries using x-rays and dye. It is the most direct test to diagnose heart artery narrowing and find clots. ", "Treatment": "Your doctor may want you to check into the hospital to get some rest, have more tests, and prevent complications.Blood thinners (antiplatelet drugs) are used to treat and prevent unstable angina. You will receive these drugs as soon as possible if you can take them safely. Medicines include aspirin and the prescription drug clopidogrel or something similar. These medicines may be able to reduce the chance of a heart attack or the severity of a heart attack that occurs.During an unstable angina event:You may get heparin (or another blood thinner) and nitroglycerin (under the tongue or through an IV), Other treatments may include medicines to control blood pressure, anxiety, abnormal heart rhythms, and cholesterol (such as a statin drug) . A procedure called angioplasty and stenting can often be done to open a blocked or narrowed arteryAngioplasty is a procedure to open narrowed or blocked blood vessels that supply blood to the heart., A coronary artery stent is a small, metal mesh tube that opens up (expands) inside a coronary artery. A stent is often placed after angioplasty. It helps prevent the artery from closing up again. A drug-eluting stent has medicine in it that helps prevent the artery from closing. . Heart bypass surgery may be done for some people. The decision to have this surgery depends on:Which arteries are blocked, How many arteries are involved , Which parts of the coronary arteries are narrowed , How severe the narrowings are. ", "Prevention": "Some studies have shown that making a few lifestyle changes can prevent blockages from getting worse and may actually improve them. Lifestyle changes can also help prevent some angina attacks. Your doctor may tell you to:Lose weight if you are overweight., Stop smoking., Exercise regularly., Drink alcohol in moderation only., Eat a healthy diet that is high in vegetables, fruits, whole grains, fish, and lean meats.. Your doctor will also recommend that you keep other health conditions such as high blood pressure, diabetes, and high cholesterol levels under control. If you have one or more risk factors for heart disease, talk to your doctor about taking aspirin or other medicines to help prevent a heart attack. Aspirin therapy (75 - 325 mg a day) or drugs such as clopidogrel, ticagrelor or prasugrel may help prevent heart attacks in some people. Aspirin therapy is recommended if the benefit is likely to outweigh the risk of side effects.", "Causes": "Coronary artery disease due to atherosclerosis is the most common cause of unstable angina. Atherosclerosis is the buildup of fatty material, called plaque, along the walls of the arteries. This causes arteries to become narrowed and less flexible. The narrowing interrupts blood flow to the heart, causing chest pain.People with unstable angina are at higher risk of having a heart attack.Rare causes of angina are:Abnormal function of tiny branch arteries without narrowing of larger arteries (called microvascular dysfunction or Syndrome X), Coronary artery spasm. Risk factors for coronary artery disease include:Diabetes, Family history of early coronary heart disease (a close relative such as a sibling or parent had heart disease before age 55 in a man or before age 65 in a woman), High blood pressure, High LDL cholesterol, Low HDL cholesterol, Male gender, Not getting enough exercise, Obesity, Older age, Smoking . "}, "Urinary incontinence - retropubic suspension": {"description": "Retropubic suspension is surgery to help control stress incontinence. This is urine leakage that happens when you laugh, cough, sneeze, lift things, or exercise.\u00a0The surgery helps close your urethra and bladder neck. The urethra is the tube that carries urine from the bladder to the outside. The bladder neck is the part of the bladder that connects to the urethra."}, "Unilateral hydronephrosis": {"description": "Unilateral hydronephrosis is swelling of one kidney due to a backup of urine.", "Possible Complications": "If hydronephrosis is left untreated, the affected kidney may be permanently damaged. Kidney failure is rare if the other kidney is working normally. However, kidney failure will occur if there is only one functioning kidney.", "Symptoms": ["Flank pain", "Abdominal mass", "Nausea and vomiting", "Urinary tract infection", "Fever", "Painful urination (dysuria)", "Increased urinary frequency", "Increased urinary urgency "], "Exams and Tests": "The condition\u00a0is found on an imaging test such as:Abdominal MRI, CT scan of the kidneys or abdomen, Intravenous pyelogram (IVP), Isotope renography (kidney scan), Ultrasound of the kidneys or abdomen . ", "Treatment": "Treatment depends on the cause of the kidney swelling. Treatment may include:A ureteral stent (tube that allows the ureter to drain into the bladder) , A nephrostomy tube (allows the blocked urine to drain out of the body into a drainage bag), Antibiotics for infections. People who have only one kidney, who have immune system disorders such as diabetes or HIV, or who have had a transplant will need prompt treatment.People who have long-term hydronephrosis may need antibiotics to reduce the risk of urinary tract infections.", "Prevention": "Prevention of the disorders that cause this condition will prevent it from occurring. ", "Causes": "Hydronephrosis (kidney swelling) occurs as the result of a disease. It is not a disease itself. Conditions that are often associated with unilateral hydronephrosis include:Acute unilateral obstructive uropathy, Blockage of a ureter due to scarring, tumor, urinary stones, or congenital abnormalities (present from birth), Chronic unilateral obstructive uropathy, Vesicoureteric reflux (backflow of urine from bladder to kidney), Nephrolithiasis (kidney stones), Hydronephrosis that occurs without a known cause during pregnancy . Unilateral hydronephrosis occurs in about 1 in 100 people."}, "Umbilical cord care in newborns": {"description": "If your baby's stump has not fallen off in 4 weeks, call you baby's doctor. There may be a problem with the baby's anatomy or immune system."}, "Unconsciousness - first aid": {"Symptoms": ["Amnesia for events prior to, during, and even after the period of unconsciousness", "Confusion", "Drowsiness", "Headache", "Inability to speak or move parts of his or her body (see stroke symptoms)", "Lightheadedness", "Loss of bowel or bladder control (incontinence)", "Rapid heartbeat (palpitations)", "Stupor (profound confusion and weakness)\r\n "], "Prevention": "Avoid situations where your blood sugar level gets too low., Avoid standing in one place too long without moving, especially if you are prone to fainting., Get enough fluid, particularly in warm weather., If you feel like you are about to faint, lie down or sit with your head bent forward between your knees.. People with known medical conditions, such as diabetes, should always wear a medical alert tag or bracelet.", "description": "Wrong answers or an inability to answer the question suggest a change in mental status.", "Causes": "Unconsciousness can be caused by nearly any major illness or injury, as well as substance abuse and alcohol use.Brief unconsciousness (or fainting) is often caused by dehydration, low blood sugar, or temporary low blood pressure. However, it can also be caused by serious heart or nervous system problems. Your doctor will determine if you need tests.Other causes of fainting include straining during a bowel movement (vasovagal syncope), coughing very hard, or breathing very fast (hyperventilating)."}, "Undescended testicle": {"description": "Undescended testicle occurs when one or both testicles fail to move into the scrotum before birth.", "Possible Complications": "Damage to the testicle from surgery \r\n\r\nInfertility later in life, Testicular cancer in both testes. ", "Symptoms": [], "Exams and Tests": "An exam by the health care provider confirms that one or both of the testicles are not in the scrotum.The health care provider may or may not be able to feel the undescended testicle in the abdominal wall above the scrotum.Imaging tests, such as an ultrasound or CT scan, may be done. ", "Treatment": "In most cases, the testicle will descend without treatment during the child\u2019s first year. If this does not occur, treatment may include:Hormone injections (B-HCG or testosterone) to try to bring the testicle into the scrotum, Surgery (orchiopexy) to bring the testicle into the scrotum. This is the main treatment. . Having surgery early may prevent damage to the testicles that can cause infertility. An undescended testicle that is found later in life may need to be removed. This is because the testicle is not likely to function well and could pose a risk for cancer. ", "Causes": "Most of the time, a boy\u2019s testicles descend by the time he is 9 months old. Undescended testicles are fairly common in infants who are born early. The problem occurs less often in full-term infants.Some babies have a condition called retractile testes and the health care provider may not be able find the testicles. In this case, the testicle is normal but is pulled back out of the scrotum by a muscle reflex. This is able to occur because the testicles are still small before puberty. The testicles will descend normally at puberty and surgery is not needed.Testicles that do not naturally descend into the scrotum are considered abnormal. An undescended testicle is more likely to develop cancer, even if it is brought into the scrotum with surgery. Cancer is also more likely in the other testicle. Bringing the testicle into the scrotum can improve sperm production and increase the chances of good fertility. It also allows the health care provider to do an exam for the early detection of cancer. In other cases, no testicle may be found, even during surgery. This may be due to a problem that occurred while the baby was still developing before birth."}, "Urine concentration test": {"description": "A urine concentration test measures the ability of the kidneys to appropriately conserve or excrete water."}, "Use of restraints": {"description": "Restraint devices"}, "Uvea": {"description": "The uvea is the middle layer of the eye beneath the white part of the eye (the sclera). It is made of the iris, ciliary body, and choroid. These structures control many eye functions, such as adjusting to different levels of light or different distances of objects. Inflammation of one or more of these structures is called uveitis."}, "Uric acid  - blood ": {"description": "This test checks to see how much uric acid you have in your blood. Another test can be used to check the level of uric acid in your urine."}, "Urine drainage bags": {"description": "Urine drainage bags collect urine. Your bag will attach to a catheter (tube) that is inside your bladder. You may have a catheter and urine drainage bag because you have urinary incontinence (leakage), urinary retention (not being able to urinate), surgery that made a catheter necessary, or another health problem."}, "Urine chemistry": {"description": "Urine chemistry is a group of one or more tests done to check the chemical content of a urine sample."}, "Urine 24-hour volume": {"description": "The urine 24-hour volume test measures the amount of urine produced in a day. The amount of creatinine, protein, and other chemicals released into the urine during this period is often tested. "}, "Urine odor": {"description": "Urine odor refers to the smell from your urine. Urine odor varies. Most of the time, urine does not have a strong smell if you are healthy and drink plenty of fluids.", "Causes": "Most changes in urine odor are not a sign of disease and go away in time. Some foods and medicines, including vitamins, may affect your urine's odor. For example, eating asparagus causes a distinct urine odor. Foul-smelling urine may be due to bacteria. Sweet-smelling urine may be a sign of uncontrolled diabetes or a rare disease of metabolism. Liver disease and certain metabolic disorders may cause musty-smelling urine.Some conditions that can cause changes in urine odor include:Bladder fistula, Bladder infection, Body is low on fluids (concentrated urine can smell like ammonia) , Poorly controlled diabetes (sweet smelling urine), Liver failure, Ketonuria. "}, "Understanding cardiovascular disease": {"description": "Cardiovascular disease is the broad term for problems with the heart and blood vessels. These problems are often due to atherosclerosis. This condition occurs when fat and cholesterol build up in blood vessel (artery) walls. This buildup is called plaque. Over time, plaque can narrow blood vessels and cause problems throughout the body. If an artery becomes blocked, it can lead to heart attack or stroke."}, "Urinalysis": {"description": "Urinalysis is the physical, chemical, and microscopic examination of urine. It involves a number of tests to detect and measure various compounds that pass through the urine."}, "Urethritis": {"description": "Urethritis is inflammation (swelling and irritation) of the urethra. The urethra is the tube that carries urine from the body.", "Possible Complications": "Men with urethritis are at risk for the following:Bladder infection (cystitis), Epididymitis, Infection in the testicles (orchitis), Prostate infection (prostatitis) . After a severe infection, the urethra may become scarred and then narrowed.Women with urethritis are at risk for the following:Bladder infection (cystitis), Cervicitis, Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID -- an infection of the uterus lining, fallopian tubes, or ovaries) . ", "Symptoms": ["Blood in the urine or semen", "Burning pain while urinating (dysuria)", "Discharge from penis", "Fever (rare)", "Frequent or urgent urination", "Itching, tenderness, or swelling in penis", "Enlarged lymph nodes in the groin area", "Pain with intercourse or ejaculation ", "Abdominal pain", "Burning pain while urinating", "Fever and chills", "Frequent or urgent urination", "Pelvic pain", "Pain with intercourse", "Vaginal discharge "], "Exams and Tests": "The health care provider will examine you. In men, the exam will include the abdomen, bladder area, penis, and scrotum. The physical exam may show:Discharge from the penis, Tender and enlarged lymph nodes in the groin area, Tender and swollen penis . A digital rectal exam will also be performed.Women will have abdominal and pelvic exams. The health care provider will check for:Discharge from the urethra, Tenderness of the lower abdomen, Tenderness of the urethra . Your health care provider may look into your bladder using a tube with a camera on the end. This is called cystoscopy. The following tests may be done:Complete blood count (CBC), C-reactive protein test, Pelvic ultrasound (women only), Pregnancy test (women only), Urinalysis and urine cultures, Tests for gonorrhea, chlamydia, and other sexually transmitted illnesses (STI), Urethral swab. ", "Treatment": "The goals of treatment are to:Get rid of the cause of infection, Improve symptoms, Prevent the spread of infection. If you have a bacterial\u00a0infection, you will be given antibiotics.You may take pain relievers, including NSAIDs (such as ibuprofen) or phenazopyridine (Pyridium), which work on the urinary tract, along with antibiotics.People with urethritis who are being treated should avoid sex, or use condoms during sex. Your sexual partner must also be treated if the condition is caused by an infection. Urethritis caused by trauma or chemical irritants is treated by avoiding the source of injury or irritation.Urethritis that does not clear up after antibiotic treatment and lasts for at least 6 weeks is called chronic urethritis. Different antibiotics may be used to treat this problem.", "Prevention": "Things you can do to help avoid urethritis include:Keep the area around the opening of the urethra clean., Follow safer sex practices, including having one sexual partner only (monogamy) and using condoms.. ", "Causes": "Both bacteria and viruses may cause urethritis. The same bacteria that cause urinary tract infections (E. coli) and some sexually transmitted diseases (chlamydia, gonorrhea) can lead to urethritis. Viral causes of urethritis include herpes simplex virus and cytomegalovirus.Other causes include:Injury, Sensitivity to the chemicals used in spermicides or contraceptive jellies, creams, or foams . Risks for urethritis include:Being a female in the reproductive years, Being male, ages 20\u00a0to 35, Having many sexual partners, High-risk sexual behavior (such as anal sex without a condom), History of sexually transmitted diseases . "}, "Urinary catheters": {"description": "A urinary catheter is a tube placed in the body to drain and collect urine from the bladder."}, "Using an incentive spirometer": {"description": "By using the incentive spirometer every 1 to 2 hours, or as instructed by your nurse or doctor, you can take an active role in your recovery and keep your lungs healthy."}, "Urine specific gravity test": {"description": "Urine specific gravity is a laboratory test that shows the concentration of all chemical particles in the urine."}, "Umbilical hernia repair": {"description": "Umbilical hernia repair is surgery to repair an umbilical hernia. An umbilical hernia is a sac (pouch) formed from the inner lining of your belly (abdominal cavity) that pushes through a hole in the abdominal wall at the belly button."}, "Upper airway biopsy": {"description": "Upper airway biopsy is surgery in which a small piece of tissue is removed from the nose, mouth, and throat area for examination."}, "Urine collection - infants": {"description": "It is sometimes necessary to get a urine sample from a baby to do testing. Most the time, urine is collected in the doctor\u2019s office. A sample can also be collected at home. "}, "Urinary incontinence - injectable implant": {"description": "Injectable\u00a0implants are injections of material into the urethra to help control urine leakage (urinary incontinence) caused by a weak urinary sphincter. The sphincter is a muscle that allows your body to hold the urine in the bladder. If your sphincter muscle stops working well you will have urine leakage."}, "Urinary tract infection in children - aftercare ": {"description": "(Note: if your child has a brain or nervous system disorder or abnormal changes or defects in their urinary tract, talk to your doctor before following these instructions.)"}, "Urethral stricture": {"description": "Urethral stricture is an abnormal narrowing of the tube that carries urine out of the body from the bladder (urethra).", "Symptoms": ["Blood in the semen", "Discharge from the urethra", "Bloody or dark urine", "Strong urge to urinate and frequent urination", "Decreased urine output inability (urinary retention) ", "Painful urination or difficulty urinating", "Loss of bladder control", "Pain in the lower abdomen and pelvic area", "Slow urine stream (may develop suddenly or gradually) or spraying of urine", "Swelling of the penis"], "Exams and Tests": "A physical exam may show the following:Decreased urinary stream, Discharge from the urethra, Enlarged bladder, Enlarged or tender lymph nodes in the groin, Enlarged or tender prostate, Hardness on the under surface of the penis, Redness or swelling of the penis . Sometimes, the exam reveals no abnormalities.Tests include the following:Cystoscopy, Post-void residual (PVR) volume, Retrograde urethrogram, Tests for chlamydia and gonorrhea, Urinalysis, Urinary flow rate, Urine culture. ", "Causes": "Urethral stricture may be caused by inflammation or scar tissue from surgery, disease, or injury. Rarely, it may be caused by pressure from a growing tumor near the urethra. Other factors that increase the risk for this condition include: Sexually transmitted infection (STI), Procedures that place a tube into the urethra (such as a catheter or cystoscope), Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), Injury to the pelvic area, Repeated urethritis. Strictures that are present at birth (congenital) are rare. The condition is also rare in women. ", "Prevention": "Practicing safer-sex may decrease the risk of getting STIs and urethral stricture.Treating urethral stricture quickly may prevent kidney or bladder complications.", "Treatment": "The urethra may be widened (dilated) during cystoscopy. Numbing medicine will be applied to the area before the procedure. A thin instrument is inserted into the urethra to stretch it. You may be able to treat your stricture by learning to dilate the urethra at home.If urethral dilation cannot\u00a0correct the condition, you may need surgery. Surgical options depend on the location and length of the stricture. If the narrowed area is short and not near the muscles that control the exit from the bladder, the stricture may be cut or dilated. An open urethroplasty may be done for longer strictures. This surgery involves removing the diseased area. The urethra is then rebuilt. The results vary, depending on the size and location of the stricture, the number of treatments you have had, and the surgeon's experience.In cases of sudden urinary retention, a suprapubic catheter may be placed as an emergency treatment. This allows the bladder to drain through the abdomen.There are currently no drug treatments for this disease. If no other treatments work, a urinary diversion called an appendicovesicostomy (Mitrofanoff procedure) may be done. This lets you drain your bladder through the wall of the abdomen using a catheter. "}, "Uvulitis": {"description": "See also:"}, "Ulcerative colitis": {"description": "Ulcerative colitis is a condtion in which the lining of the large intestine (colon) and rectum become inflamed. It is a form of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Crohn disease is a related condition.", "Possible Complications": "You have a higher risk for small bowel and colon cancer if you have ulcerative colitis. At some point, your provider will recommend tests to screen for colon cancer. More severe episodes that recur may cause the walls of the intestines to become thickened, leading to: Colon narrowing or blockage, Episodes of severe bleeding, Severe infections, Sudden widening (dilation) of the large intestine within 1 to a few days, Tears or holes (perforation) in the colon . Problems absorbing nutrients may lead to:Thinning of the bones (osteoporosis), Problems maintaining a healthy weight, Slow growth and development in children . Less common problems that may occur include:Type of arthritis that affects the bones and joints at the base of the spine, where it connects with the pelvis (ankylosing spondylitis), Liver disease, Tender, red bumps (nodules) under the skin, which may turn into skin ulcers, Sores or swelling in the eye . ", "Symptoms": ["Pain in the abdomen (belly area) and cramping", "A gurgling or splashing sound heard over the intestine", "Blood and pus in the stools", "Diarrhea, from only a few episodes to very often", "Fever", "Feeling that you need to pass stools, even though your bowels are already empty. It may involve straining, pain, and cramping (tenesmus).", "Weight loss ", "Joint pain and swelling", "Mouth sores (ulcers)", "Nausea and vomiting", "Skin lumps or ulcers "], "Exams and Tests": "Colonoscopy with biopsy is most often used to diagnose ulcerative colitis. Colonoscopy is also used to screen people with ulcerative colitis for colon cancer.Other tests that may be done to help diagnose this condition include:Barium enema, Complete blood count (CBC), C-reactive protein (CRP), Sed rate (ESR). ", "Treatment": "The goals of treatment are to: Control the acute attacks, Prevent repeated attacks, Help the colon heal . You may need to be treated in the hospital for severe attacks. Your doctor may prescribe corticosteroids. You may be given nutrients through a vein (IV line). DIET AND NUTRITIONCertain types of foods may worsen diarrhea and gas symptoms. This problem may be more severe during times of active disease. Diet suggestions include: Eat small amounts of food throughout the day., Drink plenty of water (drink small amounts throughout the day)., Avoid high-fiber foods (bran, beans, nuts, seeds, and popcorn)., Avoid fatty, greasy or fried foods and sauces (butter, margarine, and heavy cream)., Limit milk products if you are lactose intolerant. Dairy products are a good source of protein and calcium. . STRESS You may feel worried, embarrassed, or even sad or depressed about having a bowel accident. Other stressful events in your life, such as moving, or losing a job or a loved one can cause digestive problems. Ask your health care provider for tips on your to manage your stress. MEDICINESMedicines that may be used to decrease the number of attacks include: 5-aminosalicylates such as mesalamine or sulfazine, which can help control moderate symptoms. Some forms of the drug are taken by mouth; others must be inserted into the rectum., Medicines to quiet the immune system., Corticosteroids such as prednisone. They may be taken by mouth during a flare-up or inserted into the rectum., Biologic therapy, if you do not respond to other drugs., Acetaminophen (Tylenol) may help relieve mild pain. Avoid drugs such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn). These can make your symptoms worse. . SURGERYSurgery to remove the colon will cure ulcerative colitis and removes the threat of colon cancer. You may need surgery if you have: Colitis that does not respond to complete medical therapy, Changes in the lining of the colon that can lead to cancer, Severe problems, such as rupture of the colon, severe bleeding, or toxic megacolon . Most of the time, the entire colon, including the rectum, is removed. After surgery, you may have:An opening in your belly called the stoma (ileostomy). Stool will drain out through this opening., A procedure that connects the small intestine to the anus to gain more normal bowel function. . ", "Prevention": "There is no known prevention for this condition.", "Causes": "The cause of ulcerative colitis is unknown. People with this condition have problems with the immune system. However, it is not clear if immune problems cause this illness. Stress and certain foods can trigger symptoms, but they do not cause ulcerative colitis.Ulcerative colitis may affect any age group. There are peaks at ages 15 to 30 and then again at ages 50 to 70.The disease can begin the rectal area. It may involve the entire large intestine over time. It may also start in the rectum and other parts of the large intestine at the same time.Risk factors include a family history of ulcerative colitis or other autoimmune diseases, or Jewish ancestry."}, "Urostomy - stoma and skin care": {"description": "Ostomy care - urostomy"}, "Urine - abnormal color": {"description": "The usual color of urine is straw-yellow. Abnormally colored urine may be cloudy, dark, or blood-colored.", "Causes": "Abnormal urine color may be caused by infection, disease, medicines, or food you eat.Cloudy or milky urine is a sign of a urinary tract infection, which may also cause a bad smell. Milky urine may also be caused by bacteria, crystals, fat, white or red blood cells, or mucus in the urine.Dark brown but clear urine is a sign of a liver disorder such as acute viral hepatitis or cirrhosis, which causes excess bilirubin in the urine.Pink, red, or lighter brown urine can be caused by:Beets, blackberries, or certain food colorings, Hemolytic anemia, Injury to the kidneys or urinary tract, Medication, Porphyria, Urinary tract disorders that cause bleeding. Dark yellow or orange urine can be caused by:B complex vitamins or carotene, Medications such as phenazopyridine (used to treat urinary tract infections), rifampin, and warfarin, Recent laxative use. Green or blue urine is due to:Artificial colors in foods or drugs, Bilirubin, Medications, including methylene blue, Urinary tract infections. "}, "Uterine fibroids": {"description": "Uterine fibroids are tumors that grow in a woman's womb (uterus). These growths are not cancer (benign).", "Possible Complications": "Complications of fibroids include:Severe pain or very heavy bleeding that needs emergency surgery, Twisting of the fibroid. This can causes blocked blood vessels that feed the tumor. You may need surgery if this happens., Anemia (not having enough red blood cells) from heavy bleeding, Urinary tract infections: If the fibroid presses on the bladder, it can make it hard to empty your bladder completely., Infertility, in rare cases.. If you are pregnant, there's a small risk that fibroids also may cause complications:You may deliver your baby early because there is not enough room in your womb., If the fibroid blocks the birth canal or puts the baby in a dangerous position, you may need a c-section., You may have heavy bleeding right after giving birth. . ", "Symptoms": ["Bleeding between periods", "Heavy bleeding during your period, sometimes with blood clots", "Periods that may last longer than normal", "Needing to urinate more often", "Pelvic cramping or pain with periods", "Feeling fullness or pressure in your lower belly", "Pain during intercourse"], "Exams and Tests": "Your health care provider will perform a pelvic exam. This may show that you have a change in the shape of your womb. Fibroids aren't always easy to diagnose. Being obese may make fibroids harder to detect. Your doctor may do these tests to look for fibroids:Ultrasound uses sound waves to create a picture of the uterus, MRI uses powerful magnets and radio waves to create a picture, Saline infusion sonogram (hysterosonography): Saline is injected into the uterus to make it easier to see the uterus using ultrasound, Hysteroscopy uses a long, thin tube inserted into through the vagina and into the uterus to examine the inside of the uterus . If you have unusual bleeding, your doctor may do one of these procedures:A small piece of the lining of the uterus is removed and checked for cancer (endometrial biopsy), The doctor inserts a small tube through a small cut in your belly to look inside your pelvis (laparoscopy) . ", "Treatment": "What type of treatment you have depends on:Your age, Your general health, Your symptoms, Type of fibroids, If you are pregnant, If you want children in the future . Treatment for the symptoms of fibroids may include:Birth control pills to help control heavy periods, Intrauterine devices (IUDs) that release hormones to help reduce heavy bleeding and pain, Iron supplements to prevent or treat anemia due to heavy periods, Pain relievers such as ibuprofen or naprosyn for cramps or pain, Hormone therapy shots to help shrink fibroids (done only for a short time), Watchful waiting: You may have pelvic exams or ultrasounds every once in a while to check the fibroid's growth . Surgery and procedures used to treat fibroids include:Hysteroscopy. This procedure can remove fibroids growing inside the uterus., Uterine artery embolization.This procedure stops the blood supply to the fibroid, causing it to shrink and die. This may be a good option if you want to have children in the future., Myomectomy. This surgery removes the fibroids from the uterus. This also may be a good choice if you want to have children. It won't prevent fibroids from growing again., Hysterectomy. This surgery removes the uterus completely. It may be an option if you don't want children, medicines do\u00a0not\u00a0work, and you cannot have any other procedures. . ", "Causes": "Uterine fibroids are common. As many as 1 in 5 women may have fibroids during their childbearing years. Half of all women have fibroids by age 50.Fibroids are rare in women under age 20. They are more common in African-Americans than Caucasians.No one knows exactly what causes fibroids. They are thought to be caused by:Hormones in the body, Genes (may run in families) . Fibroids can be so tiny that you need a microscope to see them. They can also grow very large. They may fill the entire uterus and may weigh several pounds. Although it is possible for just one fibroid to develop, usually there are more than one.Fibroids can grow:In the muscle wall of the uterus (myometrial), Just under the surface of the uterine lining (submucosal), Just under the outside lining of the uterus (subserosal), On a long stalk on the outside the uterus or inside the uterus (pedunculated) . "}, "Urine culture - catheterized specimen": {"description": "Catheterized specimen urine culture is a laboratory test that looks for germs in a urine sample."}, "Urinary incontinence surgery - female - discharge ": {"description": "Stress incontinence is a leakage of urine that happens when you are active or when there is pressure on your pelvic area. Walking or doing other exercise, lifting, coughing, sneezing, and laughing can all cause stress incontinence. You had surgery to correct this problem. Your doctor operated on the ligaments and other body tissues that hold your bladder or urethra in place."}, "Uterine artery embolization - discharge ": {"description": "Small plastic or gelatin particles were injected into the blood vessels that carry blood to the fibroids. These particles block the blood supply to\u00a0the fibroids. Without this blood supply, the fibroids will shrink and then die."}, "Ureteroscopy": {"description": "Ureteroscopy uses a small lighted tube to examine the ureters. Ureters are the tubes that connect the kidneys to the bladder. This procedure can help diagnose and treat problems in the urinary tract, such as kidney stones."}, "Upper GI and small bowel series": {"description": "Barium enema is a related test.\r\n "}, "Uterine prolapse": {"description": "Uterine prolapse occurs when the womb (uterus) drops down and presses into the vaginal area.", "Possible Complications": "Ulceration and infection of the cervix and vaginal walls may occur in severe cases of uterine prolapse.Urinary tract infections and other urinary symptoms may occur because of a cystocele. Constipation and hemorrhoids may occur because of a rectocele.", "Symptoms": ["Pressure or heaviness in the pelvis or vagina", "Problems with sexual intercourse", "Leaking urine or sudden urge to empty the bladder ", "Low backache", "Uterus and cervix that bulge into the vaginal opening", "Repeated bladder infections", "Vaginal bleeding ", "Increased vaginal discharge"], "Exams and Tests": "Your health care provider will do a pelvic exam. You will be asked to bear down as if you are trying to push out a baby. This shows how far your uterus has dropped.Uterine prolapse is mild when the cervix drops into the lower part of the vagina., Uterine prolapse is moderate when the\u00a0cervix drops out of the vaginal opening.. Other things the pelvic exam may show are: The bladder and front wall of the vagina are bulging into the vagina (cystocele)., The rectum and back wall of the vagina (rectocele) are bulging into the vagina. , The urethra and bladder are lower in the pelvis than usual.. ", "Treatment": "You do not need treatment unless you are bothered by the symptoms. Many women will get treatment by the time the uterus drops to the opening of the vagina.LIFESTYLE CHANGESThe following can help you control your symptoms:Lose weight if you are obese., Avoid heavy lifting or straining., Get treated for a chronic cough. If you cough is due to smoking, try to quit. . VAGINAL PESSARYYour doctor may recommend placing a rubber or plastic donut-shaped device, into the vagina.This is called a pessary. This device holds the uterus in place. The pessary may be used for short-term or long-term. The device is fitted for your vagina. Some pessaries are similar to a diaphragm used for birth control.Pessaries must be cleaned regularly. Sometimes they need to be cleaned by the doctor or nurse. Many women can be taught how to insert, clean, and remove a pessary. Side effects of pessaries include:Foul smelling discharge from the vagina, Irritation of the lining of the vagina, Ulcers in the vagina, Problems with normal sexual intercourse . SURGERYSurgery should not be done until the prolapse symptoms are worse than the risks of having surgery. The type of surgery will depend on:The severity of the prolapse, The woman\u2019s plans for future pregnancies, The woman\u2019s age, health, and other medical problems, The woman\u2019s desire to retain vaginal function . There are some surgical procedures that can be done without removing the uterus, such as a sacrospinous fixation. This procedure involves using nearby ligaments to support the uterus. Other procedures are also available.Often, a vaginal hysterectomy is used to correct uterine prolapse. Any sagging of the vaginal walls, urethra, bladder, or rectum can be surgically corrected at the same time.", "Prevention": "Tightening the pelvic floor muscles using Kegel exercises helps to strengthen the muscles and reduces the risk of uterine prolapse.Estrogen therapy after menopause may help with vaginal muscle tone. ", "Causes": "Muscles, ligaments, and other structures hold the uterus in the pelvis. If these tissues are weak or stretched, the uterus drops into the vaginal canal. This is called prolapse.This condition is more common in women who have had one or more vaginal births.Other things that can cause or lead to uterine prolapse include:Normal aging, Lack of estrogen after menopause , Conditions that put pressure on the pelvic muscles, such as chronic cough and obesity, Pelvic tumor (rare). Repeated straining to have a bowel movement due to long-term constipation can make the problem worse. "}, "Urine drug screen": {"description": "A urine drug screen is\u00a0used to detect illegal and some prescription drugs in the urine."}, "Urethral discharge culture": {"description": "Urethral discharge culture is a laboratory test done on men and boys to identify germs in the urethra that may be causing an infection (urethritis).\u00a0The urethra is the tube that drains urine from the bladder."}, "Urinary incontinence - tension-free vaginal tape": {"description": "Placement of tension-free vaginal tape is\u00a0surgery to help control stress urinary incontinence. This is urine leakage that happens when you laugh, cough, sneeze, lift things, or exercise. The surgery helps close your urethra and bladder neck. The urethra is the tube that carries urine from the bladder to the outside. The bladder neck is the part of the bladder that connects to the urethra."}, "Using a walker": {"description": "If you have had an injury or surgery, your surgeon or physical therapist will help you choose the type of walker that is best for you."}, "Uterine artery embolization": {"description": "During the procedure, the blood supply of the fibroids is cut off. This\u00a0causes the fibroids to shrink."}, "Urination - difficulty with flow": {"description": "Difficulty starting or maintaining a urine stream is called urinary hesitancy.", "Causes": "The most common cause of urinary hesitancy in older men is an enlarged prostate. Almost all older men have some trouble with dribbling, weak urine stream, and starting urination. Another common cause is infection of the prostate or urinary tract. Symptoms of a possible infection include:Burning or pain with urination, Frequent urination, Cloudy urine, Sense of urgency (strong, sudden urge to urinate). The problem can also be caused by:Some medicines (such as remedies for colds and allergies, tricyclic antidepressants, some drugs used for incontinence, and some vitamins and supplements), Nervous system disorders , Side effects of surgery, Scar tissue (stricture) in the tube leading from the bladder. "}, "Undescended testicle repair": {"description": "Undescended testicle repair is surgery to correct testicles that have not dropped down into the correct position in the scrotum."}, "Urge incontinence": {"description": "Urge incontinence occurs when you have a strong, sudden need to urinate. The bladder then squeezes, or spasms, and you lose urine. ", "Possible Complications": "Physical complications are rare. The condition may get in the way of social activities, careers, and relationships. It can also make you feel bad about yourself. Rarely, this condition can cause severe increases in bladder pressure, which can lead to kidney damage. ", "Symptoms": ["Not being able to control when you pass urine", "Having to urinate often during the day and night", "Needing to urinate suddenly and urgently"], "Exams and Tests": "During a physical exam, your health care provider will look at your belly and rectum. Women will have a pelvic exam., Men will have a genital exam. . In most cases, the physical exam will not find any problems. If there are nervous system causes, other problems also may be found.Tests include the following:Cystoscopy to view the inside of your bladder, Pad test. You exercise while wearing a sanitary pad. Then the pad is weighed to find out how much urine you lost., Pelvic or abdominal ultrasound, Post void residual to measure the amount of urine left after you urinate, Urinalysis to check for infection, Urinary stress test (you stand with a full bladder and cough), Urine cytology to rule out bladder cancer, Urodynamic studies to measure pressure and urine flow, X-rays with contrast dye to look at your kidneys and bladder . ", "Treatment": "Treatment depends on how bad your symptoms are and how they affect your life. There are\u00a0four main treatment approaches for urge incontinence: Bladder and pelvic floor muscle training, Lifestyle changes, Medication, Surgery . BLADDER RETRAININGManaging urge incontinence usually begins with bladder retraining. This helps you become aware of when you lose urine because of bladder spasms. Then you relearn the skills you need to hold and release urine.You set a schedule of times when you should try to urinate. You try to hold in urination between these times., One method is to force yourself to wait 1 to 1 1/2 hours between trips to the bathroom, even if you have any leakage or an urge to urinate in between these times., As you become better at waiting, gradually increase the time by 1/2 hour until you are urinating every 3 - 4 hours. . PELVIC FLOOR MUSCLE TRAININGSometimes, Kegel exercises, biofeedback, or electrical stimulation may be used with bladder retraining. These methods help strengthen the muscles of your pelvic floor:Kegel exercises. These are mainly used to treat people with stress incontinence. However, these exercises may also help relieve the symptoms of urge incontinence. You squeeze your pelvic floor muscles like you are trying to stop the flow of urine., Do this for 10 seconds, and then relax for 10 seconds., Repeat 10 times, three times a day. . Vaginal cones. This is a weighted cone that is inserted into the vagina to strengthen pelvic floor muscles. You place the cone into the vagina., Then you try to squeeze your pelvic floor muscles to hold the cone in place., You can wear the cone for up to 15 minutes at a time, two times a day. . Biofeedback. This method can help you learn to identify and control your pelvic floor muscles. Some therapists place a sensor in the vagina (for women) or the anus (for men) so they can tell when they are squeezing the pelvic floor muscles., A monitor will display a graph showing which muscles are squeezing and which are at rest., The therapist can help you find the right muscles for performing Kegel exercises. . Electrical stimulation. This uses a gentle electrical current to contract your bladder muscles. The current is delivered using an anal or vaginal probe., This therapy may be done at the health care provider's office or at home., Treatment sessions usually last 20 minutes and may be done every 1 - 4 days. . LIFESTYLE CHANGESPay attention to how much water you drink and when you drink.Drinking enough water will help keep odors away., Drink a little bit of fluid at a time throughout the day, so your bladder does not need to handle a large amount of urine at one time. Drink less than 8 ounces at one time., Do not drink large amounts of fluids with meals., Sip small amounts of fluids between meals., Stop drinking fluids about 2 hours before bedtime., Avoid carbonated drinks. . It also may help to stop eating foods that may irritate the bladder, such as:Caffeine, Highly acidic foods, such as citrus fruits and juices, Spicy foods . Avoid activities that irritate the urethra and bladder. This includes taking bubble baths or using harsh soaps.MEDICATIONMedications used to treat urge incontinence relax bladder contractions and help improve bladder function. There are several types of medications that may be used alone or together:Anticholinergic medicines help relax the muscles of the bladder. They include oxybutynin (Oxytrol, Ditropan), tolterodine (Detrol), darifenacin (Enablex), trospium (Sanctura), and solifenacin (Vesicare)., Flavoxate (Urispas) is a drug that calms muscle spasms. However, studies have shown that it is not always effective at controlling symptoms of urge incontinence., Tricyclic antidepressants (imipramine, doxepin) help \"paralyze\" the smooth muscle of the bladder. . These medicines may have side effects such as dizziness or dry mouth. Talk with your doctor if you notice bothersome side effects.If you have an infection, your health care provider will prescribe antibiotics. Be sure to take the entire amount as directed.SURGERYSurgery can help your bladder store more urine. It can also help relieve the pressure on your bladder. Surgery is only used for people who have too many spasms and are not able to store much urine.Augmentation cystoplasty is the surgery most often performed for severe urge incontinence. In this surgery, a part of the bowel is added to the bladder. This increases the bladder size and allows it to store more urine.Possible complications include:Blood clots, Bowel obstruction, Infection, Pneumonia, Slightly increased risk of tumors. There is a risk of forming tube-like passages from the bladder to other organs or your skin. These are called urinary fistulae. They can lead to:Urine draining out in an unusual way, such as from your vagina, Urinary tract infection, Difficulty urinating . Sacral nerve stimulation is a newer type of surgery. A small unit is implanted under your skin. This sends small electrical pulses to the sacral nerve (one of the nerves that comes out at the base of your spine), The electrical pulses can be adjusted to help relieve your symptoms. . Urinary incontinence is a long-term (chronic) problem. While treatments can cure your condition, you should still to see your health care provider to make sure you are doing well and check for possible problems.", "Prevention": "Starting bladder retraining techniques early may help relieve your symptoms.", "Causes": "As your bladder fills with urine from the kidneys, it stretches to allow urine. You should feel the first urge to urinate when there is a bit less than 1 cup of urine in your bladder. Most people can hold more than 2 cups of urine in the bladder.Two muscles help prevent the flow of urine:The sphincter is a muscle around the opening of the bladder. It squeezes to prevent urine from leaking into the urethra. This is the tube that urine passes through from your bladder to the outside., The bladder wall muscle relaxes so the bladder can expand. . When you urinate, the bladder wall muscle squeezes to force urine out of the bladder. As this happens, the sphincter muscle relaxes to allow the urine to pass through. All of these systems must work together to control urination: Your bladder muscles and other parts of your urinary tract, The nerves controlling your urinary system, Your ability to feel and respond to the urge to urinate . The bladder may contract too often from nervous system problems or bladder irritation.Watch this video about:Bladder function - neurological controlURGE INCONTINENCEWith urge incontinence, you leak urine because the bladder muscles squeeze, or contract, at the wrong times. Often these contractions occur no matter how much urine is in the bladder.Urge incontinence may result from:Bladder cancer, Bladder inflammation, Something blocking urine from leaving the bladder, Bladder stones, Infection, Brain or nerve problems, such as multiple sclerosis or stroke, Nerve injury, such as from a spinal cord injury. In men, urge incontinence also may be due to:Bladder changes caused by an enlarged prostate, called benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), An enlarged prostate blocking urine from flowing from the bladder . In most cases of urge incontinence, no cause can be found.Although urge incontinence may occur in anyone at any age, it is more common in women and older adults."}, "Urination - painful": {"description": "Painful urination describes any pain, discomfort, or burning sensation when passing urine.", "Causes": "Painful urination is most often caused by an infection or inflammation somewhere in the urinary tract. For example it may be a:Bladder infection in an adult, Bladder infection in a child, Swelling and irritation of the tube that carries urine out of the body (urethra)\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 . Painful urination and women and girls may be due to:Changes in the vaginal tissue during menopause (atrophic vaginitis), Herpes infection in the genital area, Irritation of the vaginal tissue caused by bubble bath, perfumes, or lotions, Vulvovaginitis, such as yeast or other infections of the vulva and vagina. Other causes of painful urination include:Interstitial cystitis, Prostate infection (prostatitis), Radiation cystitis - damage to the bladder lining from radiation therapy to the pelvis area , \r\nSexually transmitted infections such as \r\ngonorrhea or chlamydia. "}, "Uveitis": {"description": "Uveitis is swelling and irritation of the uvea, the middle layer of the eye. The uvea provides most of the blood supply to the retina.", "Possible Complications": "Complications may include:Cataracts, Fluid within the retina, Glaucoma, Retinal detachment, Vision loss. ", "Symptoms": ["Blurred vision", "Dark, floating spots in the vision", "Eye pain", "Redness of the eye", "Sensitivity to light"], "Exams and Tests": "The health care provider will take a complete medical history and do an eye exam. Lab tests may be done to rule out infection or an autoimmune disorder.People over age 25 with pars planitis should have an MRI of their brain and spine to rule out multiple sclerosis.", "Treatment": "Iritis (anterior uveitis) is most often mild. Treatment may involve:\r\nDark glasses\r\n , \r\nEye drops that dilate the pupil to relieve pain\r\n , \r\nSteroid eye drops\r\n . Pars planitis is often treated with steroid eye drops. Other medicines, including steroids taken by mouth, may be used to help suppress the immune system.Posterior uveitis treatment depends on the underlying cause. It almost always includes steroids taken by mouth. Additional specialists in infectious disease or autoimmunity may be needed for diseases such as syphilis, tuberculosis, AIDS, sarcoidosis, or Behcet syndrome.If the uveitis is caused by a body-wide infection, treatment may involve antibiotics and powerful anti-inflammatory medicines called corticosteroids. See autoimmune disorders for information\u00a0about treating such diseases.", "Prevention": "Treatment of an underlying disorder may help to prevent uveitis in persons with a body-wide (systemic) infection or disease.", "Causes": "Uveitis can be caused by autoimmune disorders, including rheumatoid arthritis or ankylosing spondylitis. It can also be caused by\u00a0infection or exposure to toxins. In many cases, the cause is unknown.The most common form of uveitis is anterior uveitis. This involves inflammation in the front part of the eye. It is often called iritis because it usually only affects the iris, the colored part of the eye. The inflammation may be linked with autoimmune diseases, but most cases occur in healthy people. The disorder may affect only one eye. It is most common in young and middle-aged people.Posterior uveitis affects the back part of the uvea. It involves primarily the choroid, which is a layer of blood vessels and connective tissue in the middle part of the eye. This type of uveitis is called choroiditis. If the retina is also involved, it is called chorioretinitis. You may develop this condition if you have had a body-wide (systemic) infection or if you have an autoimmune disease.Another form of uveitis is pars planitis. This inflammation affects the narrowed area (pars plana) between the colored part of the eye (iris) and the choroid. Pars planitis most often occurs in young men. It is generally not associated with any other disease. However, it may be linked to Crohn's disease and possibly multiple sclerosis.Uveitis can be associated with any of the following:AIDS, Ankylosing spondylitis, Behcet syndrome, CMV retinitis, Herpes zoster infection, Histoplasmosis, Injury, Kawasaki disease, Psoriasis, Reactive arthritis, Rheumatoid arthritis, Sarcoidosis, Syphilis, Toxoplasmosis, Tuberculosis, Ulcerative colitis. "}, "Urinary incontinence": {"description": "Bowel incontinence is when you are unable to control the passage of stool. It is not covered in this article.", "Causes": "Causes of urinary incontinence include:Blockage in the urinary system, Brain or nerve problems, Dementia or other mental health problems that make it hard to feel and respond to the urge to urinate, Problems with the urinary system, Nerve and muscle problems. Incontinence may be sudden and go away after a short period of time. Or, it may continue long-term. Causes of sudden or temporary incontinence include:Bedrest -- for example, when recovering from surgery, Certain medications (such as diuretics, antidepressants, tranquilizers, some cough and cold remedies, and antihistamines), Mental confusion, Pregnancy, Prostate infection or inflammation, Stool impaction from severe constipation, which causes pressure on the bladder, Urinary tract infection or inflammation, Weight gain. Causes that may be more long-term:Alzheimer's disease, Bladder cancer, Bladder spasms, Depression, Large prostate in men, Nervous system conditions, such as multiple sclerosis or stroke, Nerve or muscle damage after radiation treatment to the pelvis, Pelvic prolapse in women -- falling or sliding of the bladder, urethra, or rectum into the vagina. This may be caused by pregnancy and delivery., Problems with the urinary tract, Spinal cord injuries, Weakness of the sphincter, the circle-shaped muscles that open and close the bladder. This can be caused by prostate surgery in men, or surgery to the vagina in women.. "}, "Ulcerative colitis - discharge": {"description": "You may have had surgery. If so you, you may have had either ileostomy or colon resection (colectomy)."}, "Using oxygen at home - what to ask your doctor ": {"description": "Below are some questions you may want to ask your doctor or nurse to help you use your oxygen."}, "Using crutches": {"description": "Talk to your health care provider. If you are having a lot of pain, weakness, or problems with balance. A walker may be a better option for you than crutches."}, "Urinary incontinence products": {"description": "The National Association for Continence may be able to help you find products. Call toll-free at 1-800-BLADDER or visit the website: www.nafc.org. You can buy their Resource Guide that lists products and services along with mail order companies."}, "Urinary tract infection - adults": {"description": "A urinary tract infection, or UTI, is an infection of the urinary tract. The infection can occur at different points in the urinary tract, including: ", "Possible Complications": "Complications may include:Life-threatening blood infection (sepsis). The risk is greater among the young, very old adults, and those whose bodies cannot fight infections (for example, due to HIV or cancer chemotherapy), Kidney damage or scarring, Kidney infection . ", "Symptoms": ["Cloudy or bloody urine, which may have a foul or strong odor", "Low fever in some people", "Pain or burning with urination", "Pressure or cramping in the lower abdomen or back", "Strong need to urinate often, even right after the bladder has been emptied ", "Chills and shaking or night sweats", "Fatigue and a general ill feeling", "Fever above 101\u00b0 Fahrenheit", "Pain in the side, back, or groin", "Flushed, warm, or reddened skin", "Mental changes or confusion (in the elderly, these symptoms often are the only signs of a UTI)", "Nausea and vomiting", "Very bad abdominal pain (sometimes) "], "Exams and Tests": "Most of the time you will need to provide a urine sample for the following tests: Urinalysis. This test is done to look for white blood cells, red blood cells, bacteria, and to test chemicals such as nitrites in the urine. This test can diagnose an infection most of the time., Clean-catch urine culture. This test may be done to identify the bacteria and determine the best antibiotic for treatment. . Blood tests such as CBC and a blood culture may be done as well.You may also need the following tests to help rule out other problems in your urinary system:CT scan of the abdomen, Intravenous pyelogram (IVP), Kidney scan, Kidney ultrasound, Voiding cystourethrogram. ", "Treatment": "Your health care provider must first decide if the infection is just in the bladder, or if it\u00a0has spread to the kidneys and how severe it is. MILD BLADDER AND KIDNEY INFECTIONSMost of the time you will need to take an antibiotic to prevent the infection from spreading to the kidneys., For a simple bladder infection, you will take antibiotics for 3 days (women) or 7 to 14 days (men)., For a bladder infection with complications -- such as pregnancy or diabetes, OR a mild kidney infection -- you will usually take antibiotics for 7\u00a0to 14 days., Finish all of the antibiotics, even if you feel better. If you do not finish the whole dose of medicine, the infection may return and be harder to treat later., Always drink plenty of water when you have a bladder or kidney infection., Commonly used antibiotics include trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, amoxicillin, Augmentin, doxycycline, and fluoroquinolones. (Tell your health care provider if you might be pregnant before taking these drugs.) . RECURRENT BLADDER INFECTIONSSome women have repeated bladder infections. Your health care provider may suggest that you:Take a single dose of an antibiotic after sexual contact., Have a 3-day course of antibiotics at home to use if you develop an infection., Take a single, daily dose of an antibiotic to prevent infections. . MORE SEVERE KIDNEY INFECTIONSYou may need to go into the hospital if you are very sick and cannot take medicines by mouth or drink enough fluids. You may also be admitted to the hospital if you:Are elderly, Have kidney stones or changes in the anatomy of your urinary tract, Have recently had urinary tract surgery, Have cancer, diabetes, multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury, or other medical problems, Are pregnant and have a fever or are otherwise ill . At the hospital, you will receive fluids and antibiotics through a vein.Some people have urinary tract infections that do not go away with treatment or keep coming back. These are called chronic UTIs. If you have a chronic UTI, you may need stronger antibiotics or to take medicine for a longer time. You may need surgery if the infection is caused by a problem with the structure of the urinary tract.", "Prevention": "Diet and lifestyle changes may help prevent some UTIs. After menopause, a woman may use estrogen cream around the vagina to reduce infections.", "Causes": "Most urinary tract infections are caused by bacteria that enter the urethra and then the bladder. The infection most commonly develops in the bladder, but can spread to the kidneys. Most of the time, your body can get rid of these bacteria. However, certain conditions increase the risk of having UTIs.Women tend to get them more often because their urethra is shorter and closer to the anus than in men. Because of this, women are more likely to get an infection after sexual activity or when using a diaphragm for birth control. Menopause also increases the risk of a UTI.The following also increase your chances of developing a UTI:Diabetes, Advanced age and conditions that affect personal care habits (such as Alzheimer disease and delirium), Problems emptying the bladder completely, Having a urinary catheter, Bowel incontinence, Enlarged prostate, narrowed urethra, or anything that blocks the flow of urine, Kidney stones, Staying still (immobile) for a long period of time (for example, while you are recovering from a hip fracture), Pregnancy, Surgery or other procedure involving the urinary tract . "}, "Urea nitrogen urine test": {"description": "Urine urea nitrogen is a test that measures the amount of urea in the urine. Urea nitrogen is a waste product resulting from the breakdown of protein in the body."}, "Using oxygen at home": {"description": "Oxygen - home use"}, "Uroflowmetry": {"description": "Uroflowmetry is a test that measures the volume of urine released from the body, the speed with which it is released, and how long the release takes."}, "Using your shoulder after replacement surgery": {"description": "Now that you are home you will need to know how to protect your shoulder as it heals."}, "Umbilical hernia": {"description": "An umbilical hernia is an outward bulging (protrusion) of the lining of the abdomen or part of the abdominal organ(s)\u00a0through the area around the belly button.", "Possible Complications": "Strangulation of\u00a0intestine tissue is rare, but serious, and needs immediate surgery.", "Symptoms": [], "Exams and Tests": "A hernia is usualy found by the doctor during a physical exam.", "Treatment": "\r\n\r\nMost hernias in children heal on their own. Surgery to repair the hernia is needed only in the following cases:The hernia does not heal after the child is 3 or 4 years old., The intestine or other tissue\u00a0bulges out and loses its blood supply (becomes strangulated). This is an emergency that needs surgery right away.. ", "Prevention": "There is no known way to prevent an umbilical hernia. Taping or strapping an umbilical hernia will not make it go away.", "Causes": "An umbilical hernia in an infant occurs when the muscle through which the umbilical cord passes does not close completely after birth.Umbilical hernias are common in infants. They occur slightly more often in African Americans. Most umbilical hernias are not related to disease. Some umbilical hernias are linked with rare conditions such as Down syndrome."}, "Ulcers": {"description": "An ulcer is a crater-like\u00a0sore on the skin or mucous membrane. Ulcers form when the top layers of skin or tissue\u00a0have been removed. They can occur in\u00a0the mouth, stomach, and other\u00a0parts of the\u00a0body.", "Causes": "Ulcers can be caused by inflammation or infection. Some ulcers may be caused by a cancer."}, "Umbilical catheters ": {"description": "Blood flow and blood clot problems can be life-threatening and require removal of the UAC. The NICU nurses carefully monitor your baby for these possible problems."}, "Urinary tract infection in women - self-care": {"description": "If you are feeling ill, have a low-grade fever, or some pain in your lower back, these symptoms will take 1 to 2 days to improve, and up to 1 week to go away completely."}, "Ultrasound": {"description": "A pregnancy ultrasound is an imaging test that uses sound waves to create a picture of how a baby is developing in the womb. It is also used to check the female pelvic organs during pregnancy."}, "Urination - excessive amount": {"description": "Excessive amount of urination means that your body makes larger than normal amounts of urine each day. ", "Causes": "An excessive volume of urination for an adult is more than 2.5 liters of urine per day. However, this can vary depending on how much water you drink and what your total body water is. Polyuria is a fairly common symptom. People often notice the problem when they have to get up during the night to use the bathroom (nocturia).Some common causes of the problems are:Diabetes insipidus, Diabetes mellitus, Drinking an excessive amounts water. Less common causes include: Kidney failure, Medicines such as diuretics and lithium, High or low calcium level in the body, Drinking alcohol and caffeine, Sickle cell anemia. Also, your urine production may increase for 24 hours after having tests that involve injecting a special dye (contrast medium) into your vein during imaging tests such as a CT scan or an MRI scan."}, "Urine melanin": {"description": "Urine melanin is a test to determine the abnormal presence of melanin in the urine."}, "Urinary incontinence - what to ask your doctor": {"description": "You have urinary incontinence. This means that you are not able to keep urine from leaking from your urethra, the tube that carries urine out of your body from your bladder. Urinary incontinence may occur as you get older. It can also develop after a surgery or childbirth. You can do many things to help keep urinary incontinence from affecting your daily life."}, "Urine output - decreased": {"description": "Decreased urine output means that you produce less urine than normal. Most adults make at least 500 ml of urine in 24 hours (a little over 2 cups).", "Causes": "Common causes include:Dehydration from not drinking enough fluids and having vomiting, diarrhea, or fever, Total urinary tract blockage, such as from an enlarged prostate, Medicines such as anticholinergics, diuretics, and some antibiotics. Less common causes include:Blood loss , Severe infection or other medical condition that leads to shock. "}, "Urinary catheters - what to ask your doctor": {"description": "Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help you take care of your catheter."}, "Using a cane": {"description": "Talk to your health care provider if you are having a lot of pain, weakness, or balance problems. Crutches or a walker may be better options for you."}, "Urinating more at night": {"description": "Some people wake up from sleep more often to urinate during the night. This can disrupt sleep cycles.", "Causes": "Drinking too much fluid during the evening can cause you to urinate more often during the night. Caffeine and alcohol after dinner can also lead to this problem. Other common causes of urination at night include:Infection of the bladder or urinary tract, Drinking a lot of alcohol, caffeine, or other fluids before bedtime, Enlarged prostate gland (BPH) . Other conditions that can lead to the problem include:Chronic kidney failure, Diabetes, Drinking an excessive amounts water, Heart failure, High blood calcium level, Certain medicines, including water pills (diuretics), Diabetes insipidus. Waking often during the night to urinate can also be linked to obstructive sleep apnea and other sleeping disorders. Nocturia may go away when the sleeping problem is under control."}, "Urinary incontinence products - self-care": {"description": "If you have problems with urinary incontinence (leakage), wearing special products will keep you dry and help you avoid embarrassing situations."}, "Ulnar nerve dysfunction": {"description": "Ulnar nerve dysfunction is a problem with a nerve that travels from the shoulder to the hand, called the ulnar nerve. It helps you move your hand and wrist.", "Possible Complications": "Deformity of the hand, Partial or complete loss of sensation in the hand or fingers, Partial or complete loss of wrist or hand movement, Recurrent or unnoticed injury to the hand. ", "Symptoms": ["Abnormal sensations in the little finger and part of the ring finger, usually on the palm side", "Loss of coordination of the fingers", "Numbness, decreased sensation", "Pain", "Tingling, burning sensation", "Weakness and clumsiness of the hand"], "Exams and Tests": "The doctor or nurse will examine you and ask questions about your symptoms and medical history. An exam of the hand and wrist may show:\"Claw-like\" deformity (in severe cases), Difficulty moving the fingers, Wasting of the hand muscles (in severe cases), Weakness of hand flexing. Tests may be needed, depending on your history, symptoms, and findings from the physical exam. These tests may include:Blood tests, Imaging scans, MRI of the neck, Nerve ultrasound, Nerve conduction tests, Recording of the electrical activity in muscles (EMG), X-rays. ", "Treatment": "The goal of treatment is to allow you to use the hand and arm as much as possible. The cause should be identified and treated. Sometimes, no treatment is needed and you will get better on your own.Medications may include:Over-the-counter pain relievers or prescription pain medications to control pain (neuralgia), Other medications, including gabapentin, phenytoin, carbamazepine, or tricyclic antidepressants such as amitriptyline or duloxetine, to reduce stabbing pains, Corticosteroids injected into the area to reduce swelling and pressure on the nerve. A supportive splint at either the wrist or elbow can help prevent further injury and relieve the symptoms. You may need to wear it all day and night, or only at night. If the ulnar nerve is injured at the elbow, wearing a pad may help protect the nerve from further injury. Be careful to avoid leaning on the elbow.Surgery to relieve pressure on the nerve may help if the symptoms get worse, or if there is proof that part of the nerve is wasting away.Other treatments may include:Physical therapy exercises to help maintain muscle strength, Occupational counseling or occupational therapy for changes you can make at work, or retraining. ", "Prevention": "Avoid prolonged pressure on the elbow or palm. Casts, splints, and other appliances should always be examined for proper fit.", "Causes": "Damage to one nerve group, such as the ulnar nerve, is called a mononeuropathy. Mononeuropathy means there is damage to a single nerve. Both local and body-wide disorders may damage just one nerve.The usual causes of mononeuropathy are:An illness in the whole body that damages a single nerve, Direct injury to the nerve, Long-term pressure on the nerve, Pressure on the nerve caused by swelling or injury of nearby body structures. Ulnar neuropathy occurs when there is damage to the ulnar nerve, which travels down the arm. The ulnar nerve is near the surface of the body where it crosses the elbow. The damage destroys the nerve covering (myelin sheath) or part of the nerve (axon). This damage slows or prevents nerve signaling.Damage to the ulnar nerve can be caused by:Long-term pressure on the elbow, An elbow fracture or dislocation. Temporary pain and tingling of this nerve can occur if the elbow is hit, producing the experience of hitting the \"funny bone\" at the elbow.Long-term pressure on the base of the palm may also damage part of the ulnar nerve.In some cases, no cause can be found."}, "Urinary incontinence - vaginal sling procedures": {"description": "Vaginal sling procedures are types of surgeries that help control stress urinary incontinence. This is urine leakage that\u00a0happens when you laugh, cough, sneeze, lift things, or exercise. A vaginal sling procedure helps close your urethra and bladder neck. The urethra is the tube that carries urine from the bladder to the outside. The bladder neck is the part of the bladder that connects to the urethra."}}