{"Knee arthroscopy": {"description": "Knee arthroscopy is surgery that\u00a0uses a tiny camera to look inside your knee. Small cuts are made to\u00a0insert the camera and\u00a0small surgical tools into your knee for the procedure.\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0"}, "Kyphosis": {"description": "Kyphosis is a curving of the spine that causes a bowing or rounding of the back, which leads to a hunchback or slouching posture.", "Possible Complications": "Untreated kyphosis can cause any of the following:Decreased lung capacity, Disabling back pain, Nervous system symptoms, including leg weakness or paralysis, Round back deformity . ", "Symptoms": ["Difficulty breathing (in severe cases)", "Fatigue", "Mild back pain", "Round back appearance", "Tenderness and stiffness in the spine "], "Exams and Tests": "Physical examination by a health care provider confirms the abnormal curve of the spine. The doctor will also look for any nervous system (neurological) changes (weakness, paralysis, or changes in sensation) below the curve.Tests that may be ordered include:Spine x-ray, Pulmonary function tests (if kyphosis affects breathing), MRI (if there may be a tumor, infection, or nervous system symptoms), Bone density test (if there may be osteoporosis). ", "Treatment": "Treatment depends on the cause of the disorder:Congenital kyphosis requires corrective surgery at an early age., Scheuermann disease is treated with a brace and physical therapy. Sometimes surgery is needed for large (greater than 60 degrees), painful curves., Compression fractures from osteoporosis can be left alone if there are no nervous system problems or pain. But the osteoporosis needs to be treated to help prevent future fractures. For severe deformity or pain from osteoporosis, surgery is an option., Kyphosis caused by infection or tumor needs prompt treatment, often with surgery and medicines. . Treatment for other types of kyphosis depends on the cause. Surgery is needed if nervous system symptoms or persistent pain develop.", "Prevention": "Treating and preventing osteoporosis can prevent many cases of kyphosis in the elderly. Early diagnosis and bracing for Scheuermann disease can reduce the need for surgery, but there is no way to prevent the disease.", "Causes": "Kyphosis can occur at any age, although it is rare at birth.A type of kyphosis that occurs in young teens is known as Scheuermann disease. It is caused by the wedging together of several bones of the spine (vertebrae) in a row. The cause of this condition is unknown.In adults, kyphosis can be caused by:Degenerative diseases of the spine (such as arthritis or disk degeneration), Fractures caused by osteoporosis (osteoporotic compression fractures), Injury (trauma), Slipping of one vertebra forward on another (spondylolisthesis). Other causes of kyphosis include:Certain endocrine diseases, Connective tissue disorders, Infection (such as tuberculosis), Muscular dystrophy, Neurofibromatosis, Paget disease, PolioScoliosis, Spina bifida, Tumors. "}, "Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome": {"Symptoms": ["Many port wine stains or other blood vessel problems, including dark spots on the skin.", "Varicose veins (may be seen in early infancy, but are more likely to be seen later in childhood or adolescence)", "Bleeding from the rectum", "Blood in the urine"], "Exams and Tests": "Persons with this condition may have excessive growth of bones and soft tissue. This occurs most commonly in the legs, but it also may affect the arms, face, head, or internal organs.", "description": "Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome is a rare condition that is typically present at birth. The syndrome usually involves port wine stains, excess growth of bones and soft tissue, and varicose veins.", "Causes": "Most cases of Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome occur for no apparent reason. However, a few cases are thought to be passed down through families (inherited), possibly as an autosomal dominant trait."}, "Kaposi sarcoma": {"description": "Kaposi sarcoma is a cancerous tumor of the connective tissue, and is often associated with AIDS.", "Possible Complications": "Complications can include:Cough (possibly bloody) and shortness of breath if the disease is in the lungs, Leg swelling that may be painful or cause infections if the disease is in the lymph nodes of the legs . The tumors can return even after treatment. Kaposi sarcoma can be deadly for a person with AIDS.An aggressive form of African Kaposi sarcoma can spread quickly to the bones. Another form found in African children does not affect the skin. Instead, it spreads through the lymph nodes and vital organs, and can quickly become deadly.", "Symptoms": [], "Exams and Tests": "The following tests may be performed to diagnose Kaposi sarcoma:Bronchoscopy, CT scan, Endoscopy, Skin biopsy. ", "Treatment": "How this condition is treated depends on:How much the immune system is suppressed (immunosuppression), Number and location of the tumors, Symptoms . Treatments include:Antiviral therapy against\u00a0HIV, since there is no specific therapy for HHV-8, Combination chemotherapy, Freezing the lesions, Radiation therapy. Lesions may return after treatment.", "Prevention": "Safe sexual practices can prevent HIV infection. This prevents AIDS and its complications, including Kaposi sarcoma.", "Causes": "Before the AIDS epidemic, Kaposi sarcoma was seen mainly in elderly Italian and Jewish men, and rarely, in elderly women. Among this group, the tumors developed slowly. In AIDS patients, the cancer can develop quickly. It may also involve the:Gastrointestinal tract, Lungs, Skin, Other organs. In people with AIDS, Kaposi sarcoma is caused by an interaction between HIV, a weakened immune system, and the human herpesvirus-8 (HHV-8). Kaposi sarcoma has been linked to the spread of HIV and HHV-8 through sexual activity.People who have kidney or other organ transplants are also at risk for Kaposi sarcoma.African Kaposi sarcoma is fairly common in young adult males living near the equator. One form is also common in young African children."}, "Kidney function tests": {"description": "Kidney function tests are common lab tests used to evaluate how well the kidneys are working. Such tests include:"}, "Knee CT scan": {"description": "A computed tomography (CT) scan of the knee is test that uses x-rays to make detailed\u00a0images of the knee."}, "Kidney stones - lithotripsy - discharge": {"description": "You had lithotripsy, a medical procedure that uses high frequency sound (shock) waves to break up stones in your kidney, bladder, or ureter (the tube that carries urine from your kidneys to your bladder). The waves break the stones into tiny pieces."}, "Kwashiorkor": {"description": "Kwashiorkor is a form of malnutrition that occurs when there is not enough protein in the diet.", "Possible Complications": "Coma, Permanent mental and physical disability, Shock. ", "Symptoms": ["Changes in skin pigment", "Decreased muscle mass", "Diarrhea", "Failure to gain weight and grow", "Fatigue", "Hair changes (change in color or texture)", "Increased and more severe infections due to damaged immune system", "Irritability", "Large belly that sticks out (protrudes)", "Lethargy or apathy", "Loss of muscle mass", "Rash (dermatitis)", "Shock (late stage)", "Swelling (edema)"], "Exams and Tests": "The physical examination may show an enlarged liver (hepatomegaly) and general swelling.Tests may include:Arterial blood gas, BUN, Complete blood count (CBC), Creatinine clearance, Serum creatinine, Serum potassium, Total protein levels, Urinalysis. ", "Treatment": "Getting more calories and protein will correct kwashiorkor, if treatment is started early enough. However, children who have had this condition will never reach their full potential for height and growth.Treatment depends on the severity of the condition. People who are in shock need immediate treatment to restore blood volume and maintain blood pressure.Calories are given first in the form of carbohydrates, simple sugars, and fats. Proteins are started after other sources of calories have already provided energy. Vitamin and mineral supplements are essential.Since the person will have been without much food for a long period of time, eating can cause problems, especially if the calories are too high at first. Food must be reintroduced slowly. Carbohydrates are given first to supply energy, followed by protein foods.Many malnourished children will develop intolerance to milk sugar (lactose intolerance). They will need to be given supplements with the enzyme lactase so that they can tolerate milk products.", "Prevention": "To prevent kwashiorkor, make sure the diet has enough carbohydrates, fat (at least 10% of total calories), and protein (12% of total calories).", "Causes": "Kwashiorkor is most common in areas where there is:Famine, Limited food supply, Low levels of education (when people do not understand how to eat a proper diet). This disease is more common in very poor countries. It often occurs during a drought or other natural disaster, or during political unrest. These conditions are responsible for a lack of food, which leads to malnutrition.Kwashiorkor is very rare in children in the United States. There are only isolated cases. However, one government estimate suggests that as many as 50% of elderly people in nursing homes in the United States do not get enough protein in their diet.When kwashiorkor does occur in the United States, it is usually a sign of child abuse and severe neglect."}, "Keratosis obturans": {"description": "Keratosis obturans is the build up of extra skin cells and flakey skin in the ear canal. It may be associated with pain or mild hearing loss."}, "Keeping your medications organized": {"description": "Learn some tips to make taking all of your medicines easier.\r\n"}, "Ketones urine test": {"description": "A ketone urine test measures the amount of ketones in the urine."}, "Knee arthroscopy - discharge ": {"description": "You had surgery to check for problems in your knee (knee arthroscopy). You may have been checked for:"}, "Krabbe disease": {"description": "Krabbe disease is a rare genetic disorder of the nervous system. It is a type of leukodystrophy.", "Possible Complications": "This disease damages the central nervous system. It can cause:Blindness, Deafness, Severe problems with muscle tone. The disease is usually life-threatening.", "Symptoms": ["Changing muscle tone from floppy to rigid (decerebrate posturing)", "Hearing loss that leads to deafness", "Failure to thrive", "Feeding difficulties", "Irritability and sensitivity to loud sounds", "Severe seizures (may begin at a very early age)", "Unexplained fevers", "Vision loss that leads to blindness", "Vomiting"], "Exams and Tests": "An exam of the retina in the eye may show damage to the optic nerve. There may be signs or deafness and abnormal posturing in the late stages of the disorder.Tests that may be done include:Blood test to look for galactosylceramidase levels in white blood cells, CSF total protein, MRI of the head, Nerve conduction velocity, Testing for the GALC gene defect. ", "Treatment": "There is no specific treatment for Krabbe disease.Some people have had a bone marrow transplant in the early stages of the disease, but this treatment has risks.", "Prevention": "Genetic counseling is recommended for persons with a family history of Krabbe disease who are considering having children.A blood test can be done to see if you carry the gene for Krabbe disease.Prenatal tests (amniocentesis or chorionic villus sampling) can be done to screen a developing baby for this condition.", "Causes": "A defect in the GALC gene causes Krabbe disease. Persons with this gene defect do not make enough of a substance called galactocerebroside beta-galactosidase (galactosylceramidase).The body needs this substance to make myelin, the material that surrounds and protects nerve fibers. Without it, myelin breaks down, brain cells die, and nerves in the brain and other body areas do not work properly.Krabbe disease can develop at various ages:Early-onset Krabbe disease appears in the first months of life. Most children with this form of the disease die before they reach age 2., Late-onset Krabbe disease begins in late childhood or early adolescence. . Krabbe disease is inherited, which means it is passed down through families. If both parents carry the defective gene related to this condition, each of their children has a 25% chance of developing the disease. (See: Autosomal recessive pattern)This condition is very rare. It is most common among people of Scandinavian descent."}, "Knee MRI scan": {"description": "An MRI does not use radiation (x-rays). Single MRI images are called slices. The images can be stored on a computer or printed on film. One exam produces many images."}, "Knee joint replacement": {"description": "Knee joint replacement is surgery to replace a knee joint with a man-made joint. The artificial joint is called a prosthesis."}, "Knee pain": {"description": "\r\n\r\n \r\n Knee pain is a common symptom in people of all ages. It may start suddenly, often after an injury or exercise. Knee pain may also began as a mild discomfort, then slowly worsen.\u00a0 \r\n\r\n", "Causes": "Simple causes of knee pain often clear up on their own with self care. Being overweight can put you at greater risk for knee problems.Knee pain can be caused by:Anterior knee pain , Arthritis -- including rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, and gout, Baker's cyst -- a fluid-filled swelling behind the knee that may occur with swelling (inflammation) from other causes, like arthritis, Bursitis -- inflammation from repeated pressure on the knee, such as kneeling for long periods of time, overuse, or injury, Connective tissue disorders such as lupus, Dislocation of the kneecap, Iliotibial band syndrome -- a hip disorder from injury to the thick band that runs from your hip to the outside of your knee, Infection in the joint, Knee injuries -- an anterior cruciate ligament injury or medial collateral ligament injury may cause bleeding into your knee, which makes the pain worse, Osgood-Schlatter disease, Tendinitis -- a pain in the front of your knee that gets worse when going up and down stairs or inclines, Torn cartilage (a meniscus tear) -- pain felt on the inside or outside of the knee joint, Torn ligament (ACL tear) -- leads to pain and instability of the knee, Strain or sprain -- minor injuries to the ligaments caused by sudden or unnatural twisting. Less common conditions that can lead to knee pain include bone tumors."}, "Kawasaki disease": {"description": "Kawasaki disease is a rare condition that involves inflammation of the blood vessels. It occurs\u00a0in children.", "Possible Complications": "Kawasaki disease can cause inflammation of blood vessels in the arteries, especially the coronary arteries. This can lead to aneurysm. Rarely, it can lead to a heart attack at a young age or later in life.", "Symptoms": ["Very bloodshot or red eyes (without pus or drainage)", "Bright red, chapped, or cracked lips", "Red mucous membranes in the mouth", "Strawberry tongue, white coating on the tongue, or\u00a0visible red bumps on the back of the tongue", "Red palms of the hands and the soles of the feet", "Swollen hands and feet", "Skin rashes on the middle of the body, NOT blister-like", "Peeling skin in the genital area, hands, and feet (mostly around the nails, palms, and soles)", "Swollen lymph nodes in the neck\u00a0(often only one lymph node is swollen)", "Joint pain and swelling,\u00a0often on both sides of the body ", "Irritability", "Diarrhea, vomiting, and abdominal pain", "Cough and runny nose "], "Exams and Tests": "Tests alone cannot diagnose\u00a0Kawasaki disease. Most of the time, the doctor will diagnose the disease when the patient has most of the common symptoms.In some cases, a child may have a fever that lasts more than 5 days, but not all the common symptoms of the disease. These children may be diagnosed with atypical Kawasaki disease. All children with fever lasting more than 5 days should be seen by a health care provider to be checked for\u00a0Kawasaki disease. Children with the disease need early treatment for a good outcome.The following tests may be done:Chest x-ray, Complete blood count, C-reactive protein (CRP), Echocardiogram, Electrocardiogram, ESR, Serum albumin, Serum transaminase, Urinalysis - may show pus in the urine or protein in the urine. Tests\u00a0such as ECG and echocardiography are done to look for signs\u00a0of myocarditis, pericarditis, arthritis, aseptic meningitis, and inflammation of the coronary arteries.", "Treatment": "Children with Kawasaki disease need hospital treatment. Treatment must be started right away\u00a0to prevent damage to the coronary arteries and heart.Intravenous gamma globulin is the standard treatment. It is given in high doses. The child's condition often gets much better within 24 hours of treatment with IV gamma globulin.High-dose aspirin is often given along with IV gamma globulin.Even with standard treatment,\u00a0up to 1 in 4 children may still develop problems in their coronary arteries. Some research suggests that adding steroids or TNF inhibitors such as Enbrel\u00a0to the treatment routine may help. However, there still needs to be better tests to tell which children will benefit from added forms of treatment.", "Prevention": "There are no known ways to prevent this disorder.", "Causes": "Kawasaki disease occurs most often in Japan, where\u00a0it was first discovered. The disease occurs more often in boys than in girls. Most of the children who develop this condition are younger than age 5.Kawasaki disease is not well understood and the cause is yet unknown. It may be an autoimmune disorder. The problem affects the mucus membranes, lymph nodes, walls of the blood vessels, and the heart."}, "Kidney removal - discharge": {"description": "You may have an 8- to 12-inch surgical cut over your belly or along your side. If you had laparoscopic surgery, you may have three or four small cuts."}, "Knee joint replacement - discharge ": {"description": "You had knee replacement surgery to replace all or part of the bones that make up your knee joint. Your surgeon removed and reshaped your damaged bones, then put your new artificial knee joint in place. You should have received pain medicine and learned how to take care your new knee joint."}, "Knock knees": {"description": "Knock knees is a condition in which the knees touch, but the ankles do not touch. The legs turn inward.", "Possible Complications": "Difficulty walking (very rare)\r\n, Self-esteem changes related to cosmetic appearance of knock knees\r\n, If left untreated, knock knees can lead to early arthritis of the knee. ", "Exams and Tests": "A doctor or nurse will examine your child. If there are signs that\u00a0knock knees are not a part of\u00a0normal development, tests will be done. ", "Causes": "Infants start out with bowlegs because of their folded position while in their mother's womb. The legs begin to straighten once the child starts to walk (at about 12 to 18 months). By age 3, the child becomes knock-kneed. When the child stands, the knees touch but the ankles are apart.By puberty, the legs straighten out and most children can stand with the knees and ankles touching (without forcing the position).Knock knees can also develop as a result of a medical problem or disease, such as:Injury of the shinbone (only one leg will be knock-kneed), Osteomyelitis (bone infection), Overweight or obesity, Rickets (a disease caused by a lack of vitamin D). ", "Prevention": "There is no known prevention for normal knock knees.", "Treatment": "Knock knees are usually not treated.If the problem continues after age 7, the child may use a night brace. This brace is attached to a shoe. Surgery may be considered for knock knees that\u00a0are severe and continue beyond late childhood. "}, "Knee braces - unloading": {"description": "Osteoarthritis is caused by wear and tear inside your knee joints."}, "Knee microfracture surgery": {"description": "Knee microfracture surgery is a common procedure used to repair damaged knee cartilage. Cartilage helps cushion and cover the area where bones meet in the joints."}, "Kidney disease - resources": {"description": "The following organizations are good resources for information on kidney disease:"}, "Keloids": {"description": "A keloids is a growth of extra\u00a0scar tissue where the skin has healed after an injury.\u00a0", "Symptoms": ["Flesh-colored, red, or pink", "Located over the site of a wound or injury", "Lumpy (nodular) or ridged", "Tender and itchy", "Irritated from friction such as rubbing on clothing"], "Exams and Tests": "Your doctor will look at your skin to see if you have a keloid.\u00a0A skin biopsy may be done to rule out other types of skin growths (tumors).", "Causes": "Keloids can form after\u00a0skin injuries from:Acne, Burns, Chickenpox, Ear piercing, Minor scratches, Cuts from surgery or trauma, Vaccination sites. The problem\u00a0is more common in\u00a0people ages 10 to 20, and in African Americans, Asians, and Hispanics. Keloids often run in families.", "Prevention": "When in the sun, cover a keloid that is forming with a patch\u00a0or Band-Aid, and by use a\u00a0sunblock. Continue follow\u00a0these steps for at least 6 months after injury or surgery for an adult, or up to 18 months for a child.Imiquimod cream can be used to prevent keloids from forming after surgery, or returning after they are removed.", "Treatment": "Keloids often do not need treatment.\u00a0If the keloid bothers you, the following things can be done to\u00a0reduce the size:Corticosteroid injections, Freezing (cryotherapy), Laser treatments, Radiation, Surgical removal, Silicone gel or patches. Many of these treatments can cause a larger keloid scar to form."}, "Kneecap dislocation": {"Symptoms": ["Knee appears to be deformed", "Knee is bent and cannot be straightened out", "Kneecap (patella) dislocates to the outside of the knee", "Knee pain and tenderness", "Knee swelling", "\"Sloppy\" kneecap -- you can move the kneecap too much from right to left (hypermobile patella)"], "Prevention": "Use proper techniques when exercising or playing sports. Keep your knee strong and flexible.Some cases of knee dislocation may not be preventable, especially if physical factors make you more likely to dislocate your knee.", "description": "Kneecap dislocation occurs when the triangle-shaped bone covering the knee (patella) moves or slides out of place. The problem usually occurs toward the outside of the leg.", "Causes": "Kneecap (patella) dislocation is often seen in women. It usually occurs after a sudden change in direction when your leg is planted. This puts your kneecap under stress.Dislocation may also occur as result of direct trauma. When the kneecap is dislocated, it can slip sideways to the outside of the knee."}, "Kidney biopsy": {"description": "A renal biopsy is the removal of a small piece of kidney tissue for examination."}, "Karyotyping": {"description": "Karyotyping is a test to examine chromosomes in a sample of cells, which can help identify genetic problems as the cause of a disorder or disease. This test can:"}, "Ketoprofen overdose": {"Symptoms": ["Blurred vision", "Ringing in the ears", "Congestive heart failure (chest pain, shortness of breath)", "High or low blood pressure", "Diarrhea", "Nausea", "Possible loss of blood in the stomach and intestines", "Stomach pain", "Vomiting (sometimes with blood)", "Difficulty breathing", "Wheezing ", "Headache", "Agitation", "Coma (decreased level of consciousness and lack of responsiveness)", "Confusion", "Convulsions", "Drowsiness", "Fatigue and weakness (lethargy)", "Numbness and tingling", "Seizures", "Unsteadiness", "Blistering rash", "Bruising", "Sweating "], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222."}, "Kinins": {"description": "They also:"}, "Kneecap dislocation - aftercare": {"description": "\r\n\r\n \r\nYour kneecap (patella) sits over the front of your knee joint. As you bend or straighten your knee, the underside of your kneecap glides over a groove in the bones that make up your knee joint.\u00a0"}, "Kuru": {"Symptoms": ["Arm and leg pain", "Coordination problems that become severe", "Difficulty walking", "Headache", "Swallowing difficulty", "Tremors and muscle jerks "], "Exams and Tests": "A neurologic exam may show changes in coordination and walking ability.", "description": "Kuru is a disease of the nervous system.", "Causes": "Kuru is a very rare disease. It is caused by an infectious protein found in contaminated human brain tissue.Kuru is found among people from New Guinea who practiced a form of cannibalism in which they ate the brains of dead people as part of a funeral ritual. This practice stopped in 1960, but cases of kuru were reported for many years afterward because the disease has a long incubation period. The incubation period is the time it takes for symptoms to appear after being exposed to the agent that causes disease.Kuru causes brain and nervous system changes similar to Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Similar diseases appear in cows as bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), also called mad cow disease.The main risk factor for kuru is eating human brain tissue, which can contain the infectious particles.", "Treatment": "There is no known treatment for kuru."}, "Kidney transplant": {"description": "A kidney transplant is surgery to place a healthy kidney into a person with kidney failure."}, "Kidney removal": {"description": "Kidney removal, or nephrectomy, is surgery to remove all or part of a kidney. It may involve:"}, "Kerosene poisoning": {"Symptoms": ["Breathing difficulty (from inhalation)", "Throat swelling (may also cause breathing difficulty)", "Pain", "Vision loss", "Abdominal pain", "Bloody stools", "Burns of the esophagus (food pipe)", "Vomiting, possibly with blood", "Collapse", "Low blood pressure -- develops rapidly", "Convulsions", "Depression", "Dizziness", "Drowsiness", "Euphoria (\"drunk\" feeling)", "Headache", "Loss of alertness (unconsciousness)", "Seizures", "Staggering", "Weakness", "Burns", "Irritation"], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222."}, "Kidney stones": {"description": "A kidney stone is a solid mass made up of tiny crystals. One or more stones can be in the kidney or ureter at the same time.", "Possible Complications": "Obstruction of the ureter (acute unilateral obstructive uropathy) . ", "Symptoms": ["Pain may be felt in the belly area or side of the back.", "Pain may move to groin area (groin pain) or testicles (testicle pain). ", "Abnormal urine color", "Blood in the urine", "Chills", "Fever", "Nausea", "Vomiting"], "Exams and Tests": "The health care provider will perform a physical exam. The belly area (abdomen) or back might feel sore.Tests that may be done include:Blood tests to check calcium, phosphorus, uric acid, and electrolyte levels, Kidney function tests, Urinalysis to see crystals and look for red blood cells in urine, Examination of the stone to determine the type. Stones or a blockage can be seen on:Abdominal CT scan, Abdominal/kidney MRI, Abdominal x-rays, Intravenous pyelogram (IVP), Kidney ultrasound, Retrograde pyelogram. ", "Treatment": "Treatment depends on the type of stone and the severity of your symptoms.Kidney stones that are small usually pass through your system on their own. Your urine should be strained so the stone can be saved and tested., Drink at least 6 - 8 glasses of water per day to produce a large amount of urine. This will help the stone pass. , Pain can very bad. Over the counter pain medicines (e.g. ibuprofen, naproxen), either alone or along with narcotics, can be very effective. . Some people with severe pain from kidney stones need to stay in the hospital. You may need to get fluids through a vein.For some types of stones, your doctor may prescribe medicine to prevent stones from forming or help break down and remove the material that is causing the stone. These medicines can include:Allopurinol (for uric acid stones), Antibiotics (for struvite stones), Diuretics, Phosphate solutions, Sodium bicarbonate or sodium citrate, Water pills (thiazide diuretics). Surgery is often needed if:The stone is too large to pass on its own., The stone is growing., The stone is blocking urine flow and causing an infection or kidney damage., The pain cannot be controlled.. Today, most treatments are much less invasive than in the past.Lithotripsy is used to remove stones slightly smaller than a half an inch that are located in the kidney or ureter. It uses sound or shock waves to break up stones. Then, the stone fragments leave the body in the urine. It is also called extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy or ESWL., Procedures performed by passing a special instrument through a small surgical cut in your skin and into your kidney or ureters are used for large stones in or near the kidney, or when the kidneys or surrounding areas are incorrectly formed. The stone is removed with a tube (endoscope)., Ureteroscopy may be used for stones in the lower urinary tract., Rarely, open surgery (nephrolithotomy) may be needed if other methods do not work or are not possible. . Talk to your doctor about what treatment options may work for you. ", "Prevention": "If you have a history of stones:Drink plenty of fluids (6 - 8 glasses of water per day) to produce enough urine. , You may need to take medicine or make changes to your diet for some types of stones., Your doctor may want to do blood and urine tests to help determine the proper prevention steps. . ", "Causes": "Watch this video about:Kidney stonesKidney stones are common. Some types run in families. They often occur in premature infants.There are different types of kidney stones. The cause of the problem depends on the type of stone.Stones can form when urine contains too much of certain substances that form crystals. These crystals can develop into stones over weeks or months. Calcium stones are most common. They are most likely to occur in men between ages 20 - 30. Calcium can combine with other substances to form the stone. , Oxalate is the most common of these. Oxalate is present in certain foods such as spinach. It's also found in vitamin C supplements. Diseases of the small intestine increase your risk of these stones. . Calcium stones can also form from combining with phosphate or carbonate. Other types of stones include:Cystine stones can form in people who have cystinuria. This disorder runs in families. It affects both men and women., Struvite stones are mostly found in women who have a urinary tract infection. These stones can grow very large and can block the kidney, ureter, or bladder., Uric acid stones are more common in men than in women. They can occur with gout or chemotherapy., Other substances such as certain medicines also can form stones.. The biggest risk factor for kidney stones is not drinking enough fluids. Kidney stones are more likely to occur if you make less than 1 liter of urine a day. "}, "Klinefelter syndrome": {"description": "Klinefelter syndrome is the presence of an extra X chromosome in a male.", "Possible Complications": "Enlarged teeth with a thinning surface is very common in Klinefelter syndrome. This is called taurodontism.\u00a0This can be seen on dental x-rays.Klinefelter syndrome also increases your risk of:Attention deficient hyperactivity disorder, Autoimmune disorders such as lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, and Sjogren syndrome, Breast cancer in men, Depression, Learning disabilities, including dyslexia, which affects reading, A rare type of tumor called an extragonadal germ cell tumor, Lung disease, Osteoporosis, Varicose veins. ", "Symptoms": ["Abnormal body proportions (long legs, short trunk, shoulder equal to hip size)", "Abnormally large breasts (gynecomastia)", "Infertility", "Sexual problems", "Less than normal amount of pubic, armpit, and facial hair", "Small, firm testicles", "Tall height"], "Exams and Tests": "Klinefelter syndrome may first be diagnosed when a man comes to the doctor because of infertility. Infertity is the most common symptom.The following tests may be performed:Karyotyping, Semen count. Blood tests will be done to check hormone levels including:Estradiol, a type of estrogen, Follicle stimulating hormone, Luteinizing hormone, Testosterone. ", "Treatment": "Testosterone therapy may be prescribed. This can help:Grow body hair, Improve appearance of muscles, Improve concentration, Improve mood and self esteem, Increase energy and sex drive, Increase strength. Most men with this syndrome are not able to get a woman pregnant. However, an infertility specialist may be able to help. A special doctor called an endocrinologist may also be helpful.", "Causes": "Most people have\u00a046 chromosomes. Chromosomes contain all of your genes and DNA, the building blocks of the body.\u00a0Two sex chromosomes determine if you become a boy or a girl. Girls normally have two XX chromosomes. Boys normally have an X and a Y chromosome.Klinefelter syndrome is when a boy is born with\u00a0at least one extra X chromosome. Usually, this occurs due to one extra X. This would be written as XXY.Klinefelter syndrome occurs in about 1 out of 500 - 1,000 baby boys. Women who get pregnant after age 35 are slightly more likely to have a boy with this syndrome than younger women."}, "Kyphoplasty": {"description": "The procedure is also called balloon kyphoplasty."}, "Kidney stones - self-care": {"description": "You may be asked to try to catch your kidney stone. You can do this by collecting all of your urine and straining it. Your\u00a0health care provider\u00a0will tell you how to do this."}, "Kidney stones - what to ask your doctor": {"description": "Below are some questions you may want to ask your doctor."}, "Keratosis pilaris": {"Symptoms": ["Small bumps that look like \"goose bumps\" on the back of the upper arms and thighs", "Bumps feel like very rough sandpaper", "Skin-colored bumps are the size of a grain of sand ", "Slight pinkness may be seen around some bumps", "Bumps may appear on the face and be mistaken for acne"], "Exams and Tests": "Your doctor or nurse can usually diagnose this condition by looking at your skin. Tests are usually not needed. ", "description": "Keratosis pilaris is a common skin condition in which a protein in the skin called keratin forms hard plugs within hair follicles.", "Causes": "Keratosis pilaris is harmless (benign). It seems to run in families.\u00a0 It is more common in people who have very dry skin, or who have atopic dermatitis (eczema).The condition is generally worse in winter and often clears in the summer.", "Treatment": "Treatment may include: Moisturizing lotions to soothe the skin and help it look better, Skin creams that contain\u00a0urea, lactic acid, glycolic acid, salicylic acid, tretinoin, or vitamin D , Steroid creams to reduce redness. Improvement often takes months and the bumps are likely to come back."}, "Kegel exercises - self-care": {"description": "Kegel exercises can be done any time you are sitting or lying down. You can do them when you are eating, sitting at your desk, driving, and when you are resting or watching television."}, "Keratoconus": {"description": "With this condition, the shape of the cornea slowly changes shape from round to a cone shape. The eye bulges out. This causes vision problems.", "Possible Complications": "There is a risk of rejection after a cornea transplant, but the risk is much lower than with other organ transplants.You should not have laser vision correction (such as LASIK) if you have any degree of keratoconus. Corneal topography is done beforehand to rule out people with this condition.In rare cases, other laser vision correction procedures such as PRK may be safe for people with mild keratoconus. ", "Symptoms": [], "Exams and Tests": "The most accurate test for this problem is called corneal topography, which creates a map of the curve of the cornea. A slit-lamp exam of the cornea can diagnose the disease in the later stages. A test called pachymetry can be used to measure the thickness of the cornea. ", "Treatment": "Contact lenses are the main treatment for most patients with keratoconus. For people with the condition, wearing sunglasses outdoors after being diagnosed may help slow or prevent the progress of the disease. For many years, the only surgical treatment has been corneal transplantation.The following newer technologies may delay or prevent the need for corneal transplantation:High-frequency radio energy (conductive keratoplasty) changes the shape of the cornea so contact lenses work better., Corneal implants (intracorneal ring segments) change the shape of the cornea so contact lenses work better, Corneal cross-linking is an experimental treatment that causes the cornea to become hard. This stops the condition from getting worse. The cornea can then be reshaped with laser vision correction.. ", "Prevention": "There is no way to prevent this condition. Some doctors believe that people should take steps to control allergies and avoid rubbing their eyes.", "Causes": "The cause is unknown. It is likely that the tendency to develop keratoconus is present from birth. The condition may be due to a defect in collagen. This is the tissue that provides the shape and strength\u00a0to the\u00a0cornea.Allergy and eye rubbing may speed up the damage.There is a link between keratoconus and Down syndrome."}, "Kernicterus": {"description": "Kernicterus is a rare neurological condition that occurs in some newborns with severe jaundice.", "Possible Complications": "Permanent brain damage, Hearing loss, Death. ", "Symptoms": ["Extreme jaundice", "Absent startle reflex", "Poor feeding or sucking", "Extreme sleepiness (lethargy) and low muscle tone (hypotonia)", "High-pitched cry", "Arched back with neck hyperextended backwards (high muscle tone/hypertonia)", "Bulging fontanel (soft spot)", "Seizures", "High-frequency hearing loss", "Intellectual disability", "Muscle rigidity", "Speech difficulties", "Seizures", "Movement disorder"], "Exams and Tests": "A blood test will show a high bilirubin level (greater than 20-25 mg/dL).Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to your doctor about the meaning of your specific test results.", "Treatment": "Treatment depends on how old the baby is (in hours) and whether the baby has any risk factors (such as prematurity). It may include:Light therapy (phototherapy), Exchange transfusions. ", "Prevention": "Treating jaundice or conditions that may lead to it can help prevent kernicterus. Infants with the first signs of jaundice have bilirubin level measured within 24 hours. If the level is high, the infant should be screened for diseases that involve the destruction of red blood cells (hemolysis).All newborns have a follow-up appointment within 2 to 3 days after leaving the hospital. This is very important for late preterm or early term babies (born more than 2-3 weeks before their due date).", "Causes": "Kernicterus is caused by very high levels of bilirubin. Bilirubin is a yellow pigment that is created as the body gets rid of old red blood cells. High levels of bilirubin in the body can cause the skin to look yellow ( jaundice).If levels of bilirubin are very high or a baby is very ill, the substance will move out of the blood and collect in the brain tissue. This can lead to serious complications, including brain damage and hearing loss. The term \"kernicterus\" refers to the yellow staining caused by bilirubin. This is seen in parts of the brain on autopsy.Kernicterus most often develops in the first week of life. However, but may be seen up until the third week. Some newborns with Rh hemolytic disease are at high risk for severe jaundice that can lead to this condition. Rarely, kernicterus can develop in seemingly healthy babies."}}