{"Whitehead": {"description": "Whiteheads are white, raised bumps caused by collections of oil and skin in pores. Whiteheads are also known as closed comedomes and pimples. They are seen with\u00a0acne."}, "When you have diarrhea": {"description": "The stomach flu is a common cause of diarrhea. Medical treatments, such as antibiotics and some cancer treatments can also cause diarrhea."}, "When your baby or infant has a fever": {"description": "Fever - infant; Fever - baby"}, "Well-child visits": {"description": "Even if your child is healthy, well-child visits are important because it is good time to focus on your child\u2019s wellness. This means talking about what is being done well and how it can be improved. Preventive care is important to keep children healthy."}, "Weight loss - unintentional": {"description": "This problem may also be called unintentional weight loss. ", "Causes": "A loss of appetite may be due to:Feeling depressed, Cancer, even when other symptoms are not present, Chronic infection such as AIDS, Chronic illness, such as COPD or Parkinson disease, Drugs, including chemotherapy drugs, and thyroid medications, Drug abuse such as amphetamines and cocaine, Stress or anxiety. Chronic digestive system problems that decrease the amount of calories and nutrients your body absorbs, including:Diarrhea and other infections that last a long time, such as parasites, Chronic swelling or infection in the pancreas, Removal of part of the small intestine, Overuse of laxatives. Other causes such as:Eating disorders, anorexia nervosa that have not been diagnosed yet, Diabetes that have not been diagnosed, Overactive thyroid gland. "}, "Wood stains": {"Symptoms": ["Loss of vision", "Severe pain in the throat", "Severe pain or burning in the nose, eyes, ears, lips, or tongue", "Blood in the stool", "Burns of the food pipe (esophagus)", "Diarrhea", "Nausea", "Severe abdominal pain", "Vomiting", "Vomiting blood", "Collapse", "Low blood pressure that develops rapidly", "Breathing difficulty (from breathing in substance)", "Throat swelling (may also cause breathing difficulty)", "Brain damage", "Difficulty concentrating", "Dizziness", "Light-headedness", "Burn", "Holes (necrosis) in the skin or tissues underneath", "Irritation"], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222."}, "When you pass your due date": {"description": "While there are some risks in a post-term pregnancy, most post-term babies are born healthy. Your doctor can do special tests to check on the health of your baby. Keeping a close eye on the baby's health will help increase the chance of good outcomes."}, "Watery eyes": {"description": "Watery eyes means you have too many tears draining from the eyes. Tears help keep the surface of the eye moist. They wash away particles and foreign objects in the eye.", "Causes": "Your eyes are always making tears. These tears leave the eye through a small hole in the corner of the eye called the tear duct. Causes of watery eyes include:Allergy to mold, dander, dust, Blepharitis (swelling along the edge of the eyelid), Blockage of the tear duct, Conjunctivitis, Smog or chemicals in the air or wind, Bright light, Eyelid turning inward or outward, Something in the eye (such as dust or sand), Scrape on the eye , Infection, Inward-growing eyelashes, Irritation. Increased tearing sometimes happens with:Eyestrain, Laughing, Vomiting, Yawning. One of the most common causes of excess tearing is dry eyes. Drying causes the eyes to become uncomfortable, which stimulates the body to produce too many tears. One of the main tests for tearing is to check whether the eyes are too dry."}, "Wine and heart health": {"description": "Studies have shown that adults who drink light to moderate amounts of alcohol may be less likely to develop heart disease than those who do not drink at all or are heavy drinkers. However, people who do not drink alcohol should not start just because they want to avoid developing heart disease."}, "Wax poisoning": {"Symptoms": [], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or a local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222."}, "Wheezing": {"description": "Wheezing is a high-pitched whistling sound during breathing. It occurs when air moves through narrowed breathing tubes in the lungs.", "Causes": "Causes of wheezing may include any of the following:Asthma, Breathing a foreign object into the lungs, Bronchiectasis, Bronchiolitis, Bronchitis, Emphysema (COPD), especially when a respiratory infection is present, Gastroesophageal reflux disease, Heart failure (cardiac asthma), Insect sting that causes an allergic reaction, Medications (particularly aspirin), Pneumonia, Smoking, Viral infection, especially in infants younger than age 2 . "}, "Weight-loss surgery - after - what to ask your doctor ": {"description": "Below are some questions you may want to ask your doctor or nurse about what will happen after you have the surgery."}, "Wrist arthroscopy": {"description": "Wrist arthroscopy is surgery that uses a tiny camera and surgical tools to examine or repair the tissues inside or around your wrist. The camera is called an arthroscope. The procedure allows the doctor to detect problems and make repairs to the wrist without making larger cuts in the skin and tissue. This means that you may have less pain and recover more quickly."}, "When your child has diarrhea": {"description": "This article speaks to diarrhea in children over 1 year of age."}, "Water in diet": {"description": "Water is a combination of hydrogen and oxygen. It is the basis for the fluids of the body."}, "Weight-loss medications": {"description": "Note for women: Pregnant or nursing women should never take diet medicines. This includes prescription, herbal, and over-the-counter remedies. Over-the-counter refers to medicines, herbs, or supplements you can buy without a prescription."}, "Weakness": {"description": "Weakness is reduced strength in one or more muscles.", "Causes": "Weakness may be all over the body or in only one area. Weakness is more noticeable when it is in one area. Weakness in one area may occur:After a stroke, After injury to a nerve, During a flare-up of multiple sclerosis . You may feel weak but have no real loss of strength. This is called subjective weakness. It may be due to an infection such as mononucleosis or the flu. Or, you may have a loss of strength that can be noted on a physical exam. This is called objective weakness. Weakness may be caused by\u00a0diseases or conditions affecting many different body systems, such as the following: METABOLICAddison disease, Hyperparathyroidism, Low sodium or potassium, Thyrotoxicosis. BRAIN/NERVOUS SYSTEM (NEUROLOGIC)Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Bell palsy, Cerebral palsy, Guillain-Barre syndrome, Multiple sclerosis, Pinched nerve (for example, caused by a slipped disk in the spine), Stroke . MUSCLE DISEASESBecker muscular dystrophy, Dermatomyositis, Muscular dystrophy (Duchenne), Myotonic dystrophy . POISONINGBotulism, Poisoning (insecticides, nerve gas), Shellfish poisoning . OTHERAnemia, Myasthenia gravis, Polio. "}, "Window cleaner poisoning": {"Symptoms": ["Loss of vision", "Severe pain in the throat", "Severe pain or burning in the nose, eyes, ears, lips, or tongue ", "Blood in the stool", "Burns of the\u00a0throat (esophagus)", "Severe abdominal pain", "Vomiting", "Vomiting blood", "Collapse", "Low blood pressure that develops rapidly ", "Breathing difficulty (from breathing in the substance)", "Throat swelling (which may also cause breathing difficulty) ", "Coma (decreased level of consciousness and lack of responsiveness)", "Dizziness", "Insomnia", "Irritability", "Severe brain damage", "Sleepiness", "Stupor", "Walking difficulties ", "Irritation", "Burns", "Holes (necrosis) in the skin or tissues underneath"], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222."}, "When you are drinking too much - tips for cutting back": {"description": "Alcohol - drinking too much; Alcohol use disorder - drinking too much; Alcohol abuse - drinking too much"}, "Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome": {"description": "Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome is one of the most common causes of fast heart rate problems in infants and children.", "Possible Complications": "Complications of surgery, Heart failure, Reduced blood pressure (caused by rapid heart rate), Side effects of medications . The most severe form of a rapid heartbeat is ventricular fibrillation (VF), which may rapidly lead to shock or death. This type of rapid heartbeat requires emergency treatment and a procedure called cardioversion. ", "Symptoms": ["Chest pain or chest tightness", "Dizziness", "Light-headedness", "Fainting", "Palpitations (a sensation of feeling your heart beating, usually quickly or irregularly)", "Shortness of breath"], "Exams and Tests": "An exam done during a tachycardia episode will show a heart rate faster than 100 beats per minute. A normal heart rate is 60\u00a0to 100 beats per minute in adults, and under 150 beats per minute in newborns, infants, and small children. Blood pressure will be normal or low in most cases. If the patient is not having tachycardia at the time of the exam, the results may be normal. Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome may be diagnosed through a continuous ambulatory ECG monitoring, such as with a Holter monitor.A test called an electrophysiologic study (EPS) is done using catheters that are placed in the heart. This test may help identify the location of the extra electrical pathway. ", "Treatment": "Medicines, particularly antiarrhythmic drugs such as procainamide or amiodarone, may be used to control or prevent a rapid heartbeat. If the heart rate does not return to normal with medical treatment, doctors may use a type of therapy called electrical cardioversion (shock).The long-term treatment for Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome is very often catheter ablation. This procedure involves inserting a tube (catheter) into a vein through a small cut near the groin up to the heart area. When the tip reaches the heart, the small area that is causing the fast heart rate is destroyed using a special type of energy called radiofrequency or by freezing it (cryoablation).Open heart surgery to burn or freeze the extra pathway may also provide a permanent cure for Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. In most cases, this procedure is done only if you need heart surgery for other reasons.", "Causes": "Normally, electrical signals follow a certain pathway through the heart. This helps the heart beat regularly. This prevents the heart from having extra beats or beats happening too soon. In people with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome, some of the heart's electrical signal goes down an extra pathway. This may cause a very rapid heart rate called supraventricular tachycardia.Most people with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome do not have any other heart problems. However, this condition has been linked with other cardiac conditions, such as Ebstein anomaly. A form of the condition also runs in families."}, "What to include in your birth plan": {"description": "Pregnancy - birth plan"}, "West Nile virus": {"description": "West Nile virus is a disease spread by mosquitoes. The condition ranges from mild to severe.", "Possible Complications": "Complications from mild West Nile virus infection are very rare.Complications from severe West Nile virus infection include:Brain damage, Permanent muscle weakness (sometimes similar to polio), Death. ", "Symptoms": ["Abdominal pain", "Diarrhea", "Fever", "Headache", "Lack of appetite", "Muscle aches", "Nausea", "Rash", "Sore throat", "Swollen lymph nodes", "Vomiting", "Confusion or change in ability to think clearly", "Loss of consciousness or coma", "Muscle weakness", "Stiff neck", "Weakness of one arm or leg"], "Exams and Tests": "Signs of West Nile virus infection are similar to those of other viral infections. There may be no specific findings on a physical examination. However, up to half of patients with West Nile virus infection may have a rash.Tests to diagnose West Nile virus include:Complete blood count (CBC), Head CT scan, Head MRI scan, Lumbar puncture and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) testing. The most accurate way to diagnose this infection is with a serology test, which checks a blood or CSF sample for antibodies against the virus. More rapid techniques using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) may be used.", "Treatment": "Because this illness is not caused by bacteria, antibiotics do not help treat West Nile virus infection. Standard hospital care may help decrease the risk of complications in severe illness.", "Prevention": "The best way to prevent West Nile virus infection is to avoid mosquito bites.Use mosquito-repellant products containing DEET, Wear long sleeves and pants, Drain pools of standing water, such as trash bins and plant saucers (mosquitos breed in stagnant water). Community spraying for mosquitoes may also reduce mosquito breeding.", "Causes": "West Nile virus was first identified in 1937 in Uganda in eastern Africa. It was first discovered in the United States in the summer of 1999 in New York. Since then, the virus has spread throughout the United States.The West Nile virus is a type of virus known as a flavivirus. Researchers believe West Nile virus is spread when a mosquito bites an infected bird and then bites a person.Mosquitoes carry the highest amounts of virus in the early fall, which is why the rate of the disease increases in late August to early September. The risk of disease decreases as the weather becomes colder and mosquitoes die off.Although many people are bitten by mosquitoes that carry West Nile virus, most do not know they've been infected. Risk factors for developing a more severe form of West Nile virus include:Conditions that weaken the immune system, such as HIV, organ transplants, and recent chemotherapy, Older or very young age, Pregnancy. West Nile virus may also be spread through blood transfusions and organ transplants. It is possible for an infected mother to spread the virus to her child through breast milk."}, "Williams syndrome": {"description": "Williams syndrome is a rare genetic disorder that can lead to problems with development.", "Possible Complications": "Calcium deposits in the kidney and other kidney problems, Death (in rare cases from anesthesia), Heart failure due to narrowed blood vessels, Pain in the abdomen. ", "Symptoms": ["Delayed speech that may later turn into strong speaking ability and strong learning by hearing", "Developmental delay", "Easily distracted, attention deficit disorder (ADD)", "Feeding problems including colic, reflux, and vomiting", "Inward bend of the small finger (clinodactyly)", "Learning disorders", "Mild-to-moderate intellectual disability", "Personality traits including being very friendly, trusting strangers, fearing loud sounds or physical contact, and being interested in music", "Short compared to the rest of the person's family", "Sunken chest (pectus excavatum)", "A\u00a0flattened nasal bridge with small upturned nose", "Long ridges in the skin that run from the nose to the upper lip (philtrum) ", "Prominent lips with an open mouth", "Skin that covers the inner corner of the eye (epicanthal folds)", "Partially missing teeth, defective tooth enamel, or small, widely spaced teeth "], "Exams and Tests": "Signs include:Blood vessel narrowing including supravalvular aortic stenosis, pulmonary stenosis, and pulmonary artery stenosis, Farsightedness, High blood calcium level (hypercalcemia) that may cause seizures and rigid muscles, High blood pressure, Slack joints that may change to stiffness as patient gets older, Unusual pattern (\"stellate\" or star-like) in iris of the eye. Tests for Williams syndrome:Blood pressure check, Blood test for missing chromosome (FISH test), Echocardiography combined with Doppler ultrasound, Kidney ultrasound. ", "Treatment": "There is no cure for Williams syndrome. Avoid taking extra calcium and vitamin D. Treat high levels of blood calcium, if present. Blood vessel narrowing can be a significant health problem and is treated based on its severity.Physical therapy is helpful to patients with joint stiffness. Developmental and speech therapy can also help these children (for example, verbal strengths can help make up for other weaknesses). Other treatments are based on a patient's symptoms.It can help to have treatment coordinated by a geneticist who is experienced with Williams syndrome.", "Prevention": "There is no known way to prevent the genetic problem that causes Williams syndrome. Prenatal testing is available for couples with a family history of Williams syndrome who wish to conceive.", "Causes": "Williams syndrome is a rare condition caused by missing a copy of several genes. Parents may not have any family history of the condition. However, a person with Williams syndrome has a 50% chance of passing the disorder on to each of his or her children. The cause usually occurs randomly.Williams syndrome occurs in about 1 in 8,000 births.One of the 25 missing genes is the gene that produces elastin, a protein that allows blood vessels and other tissues in the body to stretch. It is likely that missing a copy of this gene results in the narrowing of blood vessels, stretchy skin, and flexible joints seen in this condition."}, "When to use the emergency room - child": {"description": "It pays to think about the right place to go. Treatment in an emergency department can cost 2 to 3 times more than the same care in your doctor's office. Think about this and the other issues listed below when deciding. "}, "What causes bone loss? ": {"description": "Osteoporosis - causes; Low bone density - causes"}, "What to bring to your labor and delivery": {"description": "About a month before your baby's due date, make sure you have the items below. Pack as many beforehand as you can. Use this checklist as a guide to get organized for the big event."}, "Waardenburg syndrome": {"description": "Waardenburg syndrome is a group of conditions passed down through families that involve deafness and pale skin, hair, and eye color.", "Possible Complications": "Constipation severe enough to require part of large bowel to be removed, Hearing loss, Self-esteem problems, or other problems related to appearance, Slight decreased intellectual functioning (possible, unusual), Slight increased risk for muscle tumor called rhabdomyosarcoma. ", "Symptoms": ["Cleft lip (rare)", "Constipation", "Deafness (more common in type II disease)", "Extremely pale blue eyes or eye colors that don't match (heterochromia)", "Pale color skin, hair, and eyes (partial albinism)", "Difficulty completely straightening joints", "Possible slight decrease in intellectual function", "Wide-set eyes (in type I)", "White patch of hair or early graying of the hair "], "Exams and Tests": "Tests may include:Audiometry, Bowel transit time, Colon biopsy, Genetic testing. ", "Treatment": "There is no specific treatment. Symptoms will be treated as appropriate. Special diets and medicines to keep the bowel moving are prescribed to those patients who have constipation. Hearing should be monitored closely.", "Causes": "Waardenburg syndrome is usually inherited as an autosomal dominant trait, meaning only one parent has to pass on the faulty gene for a child to be affected.There are four main types of Waardenburg syndrome. The most common are type I and type II.Type III (Klein-Waardenburg syndrome) and type IV (Waardenburg-Shah syndrome) are more rare.The multiple types of this syndrome result from defects in different genes. Most people with this disease have a parent with the disease, but the symptoms in the parent can be quite different from those in the child."}, "Wart remover poisoning": {"Symptoms": ["Breathing may stop", "Rapid breathing", "Shallow breathing", "Eye irritation", "Loss of vision", "Ringing in the ears", "Throat swelling", "Kidney failure", "Collapse (from swallowing substance)", "Convulsions (from swallowing substance)", "Dizziness", "Drowsiness", "Fever (from swallowing substance)", "Hallucinations", "Hyperactivity", "Rash (usually an allergic reaction)", "Mild burn (in extremely high doses)", "Nausea", "Vomiting, possibly with blood"], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222.", "Prevention": "Keep all poisons in childproof containers, labeled, and out of reach of children."}, "Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome": {"description": "Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome is a brain disorder due to thiamine (vitamin B1)\u00a0deficiency.", "Possible Complications": "Alcohol withdrawal, Difficulty with personal or social interaction, Injury caused by falls, Permanent alcoholic neuropathy, Permanent loss of thinking skills, Permanent loss of memory, Shortened life span. ", "Symptoms": ["Confusion and loss of mental activity that can progress to coma and death", "Loss of muscle coordination (ataxia) \r\nthat can cause leg tremor \r\n\u00a0 \r\n ", "Vision changes such as\r\n\r\nabnormal eye movements (back and forth movements called nystagmus), \r\n double vision,\u00a0eyelid drooping", "Alcohol withdrawal", "Inability to form new memories", "Loss of memory, can be severe", "Making up stories (confabulation)", "Seeing or hearing things that are not really there (hallucinations)"], "Exams and Tests": "Examination of the nervous/muscular system may show damage to many nerve systems:Abnormal eye movement, Decreased or abnormal reflexes, Fast pulse (heart rate), Low blood pressure, Low body temperature, Muscle weakness and atrophy (loss of tissue mass), Problems with walk (gait) and coordination. The person may appear poorly nourished. The following tests are used to check a person's nutrition level:Serum albumin (relates to person's general nutrition), Serum vitamin B1 levels, Transketolase activity in red blood cells (reduced in people with thiamine deficiency). Liver enzymes may be high in people with a history of long-term alcohol abuse.Other conditions that may cause\u00a0vitamin B1\u00a0deficiency include:AIDS, Cancers that have spread throughout the body, Extreme nausea and vomiting during pregnancy (hyperemesis gravidarum), Heart failure (when treated with long-term diuretic therapy), Long periods of intravenous (IV) therapy without receiving thiamine supplements, Long-term dialysis, Very high thyroid hormone levels (thyrotoxicosis). A brain MRI may show changes in the tissue of the brain. But if Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome is suspected, treatment should start immediately. Usually a brain MRI exam is not needed.", "Treatment": "The goals of treatment are to control symptoms and to prevent the disorder from getting worse. Some people may need to stay in the hospital early in the condition to help control symptoms.Monitoring and special care may be needed if the person is:Comatose, Lethargic, Unconscious. Vitamin B1\u00a0may be given by injection into a vein or a muscle, or by mouth. It may improve symptoms of:Confusion or delirium, Difficulties with vision and eye movement, Lack of muscle coordination. Vitamin B1\u00a0usually does not improve loss of memory and intellect that occur with Korsakoff psychosis.Stopping alcohol use can prevent\u00a0more loss of brain function and damage to nerves. Eating a well-balanced, nourishing diet can help, but it is not a substitute for stopping alcohol use.", "Prevention": "Not drinking alcohol or drinking in moderation and getting enough nutrition reduce the risk of developing Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome. If a heavy drinker will not quit, thiamine supplements and a good diet may reduce the chance of getting this condition, but the risk is not eliminated.", "Causes": "Wernicke encephalopathy and Korsakoff syndrome are different conditions. Both are\u00a0due to brain damage caused by a lack of vitamin B1.Lack of vitamin B1 is common in people with alcoholism. It is also common in persons whose bodies do not absorb food properly (malabsorption), as sometimes occurs with a chronic illness or after obesity (bariatric)\u00a0surgery. Korsakoff syndrome, or Korsakoff psychosis, tends to develop as Wernicke symptoms go away. Wernicke encephalopathy causes brain damage in lower parts of the brain called the thalamus and hypothalamus. Korsakoff psychosis results from permanent damage to areas of the brain involved with memory."}, "Watercolor paints - swallowing": {"Symptoms": [], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222."}, "Weight-loss surgery and children": {"description": "Children with obesity have health problems that used to be seen only in adults. When these problems begin in childhood, they often become worse in adulthood. A child who is overweight or obese is also\u00a0more likely to have problems such as:"}, "Weight gain - unintentional": {"description": "Unintentional weight gain is when you gain weight without trying to do so and you are not eating or drinking more.", "Causes": "Gaining weight when you are not trying to do so can have many causes. Metabolism slows down as you age. This can cause weight gain if you eat too much, eat the wrong foods, or do not get enough exercise.Drugs that can cause weight gain include: Birth control pills , Corticosteroids , Some drugs used to treat bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, and depression, Some drugs used to treat diabetes. Hormone changes or medical problems can also cause unintentional weight gain. This may be due to:Cushing syndrome, Underactive thyroid, or low thyroid (Hypothyroidism), Polycystic ovary syndrome, Menopause, Pregnancy. Bloating, or swelling due to a buildup of fluid in the tissues can cause weight gain. This may be due to menstruation, heart or kidney failure, preeclampsia, or medicines you take. A rapid weight gain may be a sign of dangerous fluid retention.If you quit smoking, you might gain weight. Most people who quit smoking gain 4 - 10 pounds in the first 6 months after quitting. Some gain as much as 25 - 30 pounds. This weight gain is not simply due to eating more."}, "WBC count": {"description": "WBCs help fight infections. They are also called leukocytes. There are five major types of white blood cells:"}, "Wrinkles": {"description": "Wrinkles are creases in the skin. They are also called rhytids.", "Causes": "Common causes of wrinkles include:Genetic factors (family history) , Normal aging changes in the skin, Smoking, Sun exposure. "}, "Wasp sting": {"Symptoms": ["Swelling of throat, lips and mouth * ", "Abdominal cramping", "Diarrhea", "Nausea", "Vomiting ", "Severe decrease in blood pressure", "Collapse* ", "Difficulty breathing * ", "Hives *", "Itching", "Swelling and pain at site of sting "], "description": "See also: Insect bites and stings", "Prevention": "Wear protective clothing whenever possible when travelling through terrain which is known to harbor bees, wasps or yellow jackets. Do not stick your hands in their nests. Avoid wearing bright colored clothing when traveling through, or working in, an area known to have large numbers of wasps, bees or yellow jackets."}, "Wrist pain": {"Prevention": "To prevent carpal tunnel syndrome:Adjust your keyboard so that you do not have to bend your wrist upward while typing., Take frequent breaks from activities that require wrist movement.\r\n  , Work with an occupational therapist.\r\n  . To prevent gout attacks:Limit alcohol.\r\n  , Lose weight if you are overweight.\r\n  , Drink plenty of water.\r\n  , Eat lower amounts of liver, anchovies, sardines, and herring.\r\n  , Your doctor may prescribe medication.\r\n  . ", "description": "Wrist pain is any pain or discomfort in the wrist.", "Causes": "Carpal tunnel syndrome: A common cause of wrist pain is carpal tunnel syndrome. You may feel aching, burning, numbness, or tingling in your palm, wrist, thumb, or fingers. The thumb muscle can become weak, making it difficult to grasp things. Pain may extend up to your elbow.Carpal tunnel syndrome occurs when the median nerve gets compressed at the wrist because of swelling. This is the nerve in the wrist that allows feeling and movement to parts of the hand. Swelling can occur if you:Do repetitive movements with your wrist, such as typing on a computer keyboard, using a computer mouse, playing racquetball or handball, sewing, painting, writing, or using a vibrating tool, Are pregnant, menopausal, or overweight, Have diabetes, premenstrual syndrome, an underactive thyroid, or rheumatoid arthritis. Injury: Wrist pain with bruising and swelling is often a sign of an injury. Signs of a possible broken bone include deformed joints and inability to move the wrist, hand, or a finger. Other common injuries include sprain, strain, tendinitis, and bursitis.Arthritis: Arthritis is another common cause of wrist pain, swelling, and stiffness. There are many types of arthritis:Osteoarthritis occurs with age and overuse., Rheumatoid arthritis generally affects both wrists., Psoriatic arthritis accompanies psoriasis., Infectious arthritis is a medical emergency. Signs of an infection include redness and warmth of the wrist, fever above 100\u00b0F, and recent illness.. Other CausesGout: This occurs when your body produces too much uric acid, a waste product. It forms crystals in the joints, rather than being excreted in the urine. , Pseudogout: This occurs when calcium deposits in the joints, causing pain, redness, and swelling. The wrists and knees are most often affected.. "}, "What is palliative care?": {"description": "Comfort care; End of life - palliative care; Hospice - palliative care"}, "Widely spaced teeth": {"description": "Widely spaced teeth can be a temporary condition related to normal growth and the development of adult teeth. Wide spacing can also occur as a result of several diseases or continued growth of the jawbone.", "Causes": "Acromegaly, Ellis-van Creveld syndrome, Injury, Morquio syndrome, Normal growth (temporary widening), Possible gum disease, Sanfilippo syndrome, Tooth shifting due to gum disease or missing teeth . "}, "Wilson disease": {"description": "Wilson disease is an inherited disorder in which there is too much copper in the body's tissues. The excess copper damages the liver and nervous system. ", "Possible Complications": "Anemia (hemolytic anemia is rare), Central nervous system complications, Cirrhosis, Death of liver tissues, Fatty liver, Hepatitis, Increased number of bone fractures, Increased number of infections, Injury caused by falls, Jaundice, Joint contractures or other deformity, Loss of ability to care for self, Loss of ability to function at work and home, Loss of ability to interact with other people, Loss of muscle mass (muscle atrophy), Psychological complications, Side effects of penicillamine and other medications used to treat the disorder, Spleen problems . Liver failure and damage to the central nervous system (brain, spinal cord) are the most common and dangerous effects of the disorder. If Wilson disease is not caught and treated early, it can be\u00a0fatal.", "Symptoms": ["Abnormal posture of arms and legs", "Confusion or delirium", "Dementia", "Difficulty moving arms and legs, stiffness", "Difficulty walking (ataxia)", "Emotional or behavioral changes", "Enlargement of the abdomen (abdominal distention)", "Personality changes", "Phobias, distress (neuroses)", "Slow movements", "Slow or decreased movement and expressions of the face", "Speech impairment", "Tremors of the arms or hands", "Uncontrollable movement", "Unpredictable and jerky movement", "Vomiting blood", "Weakness", "Yellow skin (jaundice) or yellow color of the white of the eye (icterus)"], "Exams and Tests": "A slit-lamp eye examination may show:Limited eye movement, Rusty or brown-colored ring around the iris (Kayser-Fleischer rings) . A physical examination may show signs of:Damage to the central nervous system, including loss of coordination, loss of muscle control, muscle tremors, loss of thinking and IQ, loss of memory, and confusion (delirium or dementia), Liver or spleen disorders (including cirrhosis, splenomegaly, and liver necrosis) . Lab tests may include:Complete blood count (CBC), Serum ceruloplasmin, Serum copper, Serum uric acid, Urine copper . If there are liver problems, lab tests may find:High AST and ALT, High bilirubin, High PT and PTT, Low albumin. Other tests may include:24-hour urine copper test, Abdominal x-ray, Abdominal MRI, CT scan of the abdomen, Head CT scan, Head MRI, Liver biopsy. The gene that causes Wilson disease has been found. It is called ATP7B. DNA testing is available for this gene. Talk to your health care provider or a genetic counselor if you would like to have gene testing performed.", "Treatment": "The goal of treatment is to reduce the amount of copper in the tissues. This is done by a procedure called chelation -- certain medications can bind to copper and help remove it through the kidneys or gut. Treatment must be lifelong.The following medications may be used:Penicillamine (Cuprimine, Depen) binds to copper and leads to increased release of copper in the urine., Trientine (Syprine) binds (chelates) the copper and increases its release through the urine., Zinc acetate (Galzin) blocks copper from being absorbed in the intestinal tract.. Vitamin E supplements may also be used.Sometimes, medications that chelate copper (especially penicillamine) can affect the function of the brain and nervous system (neurological function). Other medications under investigation may bind copper without affecting neurological function.A low-copper diet may also be recommended. Foods to avoid include:Chocolate, Dried fruit, Liver, Mushrooms, Nuts, Shellfish. You may want to drink distilled water because most tap water flows through copper pipes. Avoid using copper cooking utensils.Symptoms may be treated with exercise or physical therapy. People who are confused or unable to care for themselves may need special protective measures.A liver transplant may be considered in cases where the liver is severely damaged by the disease.", "Prevention": "Genetic counseling is recommended for people with a family history of Wilson disease.", "Causes": "Wilson disease is a rare inherited disorder. If both parents carry an abnormal gene for Wilson disease, there is a 25% chance in each pregnancy that the child will have the disorder.Wilson disease causes the body to take in and keep too much copper. The copper deposits in the liver, brain, kidneys, and eyes. The copper deposits cause tissue damage, tissue death, and scarring, which causes the affected organs to stop working correctly.This condition is most common in eastern Europeans, Sicilians, and southern Italians, but it\u00a0may occur in any group. Wilson disease typically appears in people under 40 years old. In children, the symptoms begin to show by age 4."}, "Water safety and drowning": {"description": "Drowning is a leading cause of death among people of all ages. Learning and practicing water safety is important to prevent drowning accidents."}, "Wegener\u2019s granulomatosis": {"description": "Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA), formerly known as Wegener's granulomatosis, is a rare disorder in which blood vessels become inflamed. This leads to \u00a0damage in major organs of the body.", "Possible Complications": "Complications most often occur when the disease is not treated. People with GPA develop tissue damage (lesions) in the respiratory tract and the kidneys. Kidney lesions cause glomerulonephritis, which may result in blood in the urine and kidney failure. Kidney disease can quickly get worse. Kidney function may not improve even when the condition is controlled by medicines.If untreated, kidney failure and death occur in most of patients.Other complications may include:Eye swelling, Lung failure, Coughing up blood, Nasal septum perforation (hole inside the nose), Side effects from medicines used to treat the disease. ", "Symptoms": ["Chest pain", "Cough, with or without blood", "Joint pain", "Shortness of breath", "Weakness", "Wheezing"], "Exams and Tests": "You may have a blood test that looks for proteins called antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA). These aree often found in people with active GPA. However, this test is sometimes comes back negative even in people with the condition. Urinalysis is done to look for signs of kidney disease such as protein and blood in the urine. Sometimes urine is collected over 24 hours to check how the kidneys are working.A biopsy is sometimes needed to confirm the diagnosis. The exact type of biopsy depends on which area of the body the doctor wants to look at. Your doctor may suggest one of the following:Bronchoscopy with biopsy, Kidney biopsy, Nasal mucosal biopsy, Open lung biopsy, Skin biopsy, Upper airway biopsy. Other tests that may be done include:Sinus CT scan, Chest CT scan, Chest x-ray. ", "Treatment": "Your doctor may suggest treatment with glucocorticoids (such as prednisone) which are given along with other medicines that slow down the immune response.Medicines used to treat GPA include:Azathioprine (Imuran), Cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan), Methotrexate. These medicines may cause serious side effects. Talk to your doctor about your treatment plan. Other medicines used for the condition include:Bisphosphonate (Fosamax) to prevent bone loss caused by prednisone, Folic acid or folinic acid (leucovorin) -- if you are taking methotrexate, Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole to prevent lung infections. ", "Prevention": "There is no known prevention.", "Causes": "GPA mainly affects blood vessels in the nose, sinuses, ears, lungs, and kidneys. Other areas may also be affected in some cases.The exact cause is unknown, but it is an autoimmune disorder.Wegener's granulomatosis is most common in middle-aged adults of northern European descent. It is rare in children, but has been seen in infants as young as 3 months old."}, "Wilms tumor": {"description": "Wilms tumor is a type of kidney cancer that occurs in children.", "Possible Complications": "The tumor may become quite large, but usually remains self-enclosed. Spread of the tumor to the lungs, liver, bone, or brain is the most worrisome complication.High blood pressure and kidney damage may occur as the result of the tumor or its treatment.Removal of Wilms tumor from both kidneys may affect kidney function.", "Symptoms": ["Abdominal pain", "Abnormal urine color", "Constipation", "Fever", "General discomfort or uneasiness (malaise)", "High blood pressure", "Increased growth on only one side of the body", "Loss of appetite", "Nausea", "Swelling in the abdomen (abdominal hernia or mass)", "Vomiting"], "Exams and Tests": "The doctor or nurse will perform a physical exam and ask questions about your child\u2019s symptoms and medical history. You will be asked if you have a family history of cancer.A physical examination may show an abdominal mass. High blood pressure may also be present.Tests include:Abdominal ultrasound, Abdominal x-ray, BUN, Chest x-ray, Complete blood count (may show anemia), Creatinine, Creatinine clearance, CT scan of the abdomen, Intravenous pyelogram, Urinalysis. Other tests may be required to determine if the tumor has spread.", "Treatment": "If your child is diagnosed with this condition, do not prod or push on the child's belly area. Use care during bathing and handling to avoid injury to the tumor site.The first step in treatment is to stage the tumor. Staging helps doctors determine how far the cancer has spread and to plan for the best treatment. Surgery to remove the tumor is scheduled as soon as possible. Surrounding tissues and organs may also need to be removed if the tumor has spread. Radiation therapy and chemotherapy will often be started after surgery, depending on the stage of the tumor.", "Prevention": "For children with a known high risk of Wilms tumor, screening\u00a0using ultrasound of the kidneys may be recommended.", "Causes": "Wilms tumor is the most common form of childhood kidney cancer. The exact cause of this tumor in most children is unknown.A missing iris of the eye (aniridia) is a birth defect that is sometimes associated with Wilms tumor. Other birth defects linked to this type of kidney cancer include certain urinary tract problems and swelling of one side of the body, a condition called hemihypertrophy.It is more common among some siblings and twins, which suggests a possible genetic cause.The disease occurs most often in children about 3 years old. It rarely develops after age 8."}, "Whipple's disease": {"description": "Whipple's disease is a rare condition that prevents the small intestines from allowing nutrients to pass into the rest of the body. This is called malabsorption.", "Possible Complications": "Brain damage, Heart valve damage (from endocarditis), Nutritional deficiencies, Symptoms return (which may be because of drug resistance), Weight loss. ", "Symptoms": ["Abdominal pain", "Diarrhea", "Fever", "Gray to brown skin color", "Joint pain in the ankles, knees, elbows, fingers, or other areas", "Memory loss", "Mental changes", "Weight loss "], "Exams and Tests": "The doctor or nurse will perform a physical exam. This may show:Enlarged lymph glands, Heart murmur, Swelling in body tissues (edema) . Tests to diagnose Whipple's disease may include:Complete blood count (CBC), Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test to check for the bacteria that cause\u00a0the disease, Small bowel biopsy, Upper GI endoscopy (viewing the intestines with a flexible, lighted tube in a process called enteroscopy) . This disease may also change the results of the following tests:Albumin levels in the blood, Unabsorbed fat in the stools (fecal fat), Intestinal absorption of a type of sugar (d-xylose absorption) . ", "Treatment": "People with Whipple's disease need to take long-term antibiotics to cure any infections of the brain and central nervous system. An antibiotic called ceftriaxone is given through a vein (IV). It is followed by another antibiotic (such as trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole) taken by mouth for up to 1 year.If symptoms come back during antibiotic use, the medications may be changed.Your health care provider should closely follow your progress. Symptoms of the disease can return after you finish the treatments. People who remain malnourished will also need to take dietary supplements.", "Causes": "Whipple's disease is caused by infection with a form of bacteria called Tropheryma whippelii. The disorder mainly affects middle-aged white men.Whipple's disease is very rare. Risk factors are unknown."}, "Weight-loss surgery - before - what to ask your doctor ": {"description": "Below are some questions you may want to ask your doctor or nurse before you have weight-loss surgery."}, "Walking abnormalities": {"description": "Walking abnormalities are unusual and uncontrollable walking patterns. They\u00a0are usually due to diseases or injuries to the legs, feet, brain, spinal cord, or inner ear.", "Causes": "Abnormal gait may be caused by diseases in many different areas of the body.General causes of abnormal gait may include:Arthritis of the leg or foot joints, Conversion disorder (a psychological disorder), Foot problems (such as a callus, corn, ingrown toenail, wart, pain, skin sore, swelling, or spasms), Fracture, Injections into muscles that causes soreness in the leg or buttocks, Infection, Injury, Legs that are different lengths, Myositis, Shin splints, Shoe problems, Tendonitis, Torsion of the testis. This list does not include all causes of abnormal gait.CAUSES OF SPECIFIC GAITSPropulsive gait:\r\n  Carbon monoxide poisoning, Manganese poisoning, Parkinson's disease, Use of certain drugs including phenothiazines, haloperidol, thiothixene, loxapine, and metoclopramide (usually drug effects are temporary) . , Spastic (scissors) gait:\r\n  Brain abscess, Brain or head trauma, Brain tumor, Cerebrovascular accident (stroke), Cerebral palsy, Cervical spondylosis with myelopathy (a problem with the vertebrae in the neck), Liver failure, Multiple sclerosis, Pernicious anemia, Spinal cord trauma, Spinal cord tumor, Syphilitic meningomyelitis, Syringomyelia. , Steppage gait:\r\n  Guillain-Barre syndrome, Herniated lumbar disk, Multiple sclerosis, Muscle weakness of the tibia, Peroneal neuropathy, Poliomyelitis, Spinal cord injury . , Waddling gait:\r\n  Congenital hip dysplasia, Muscular dystrophy, Muscle disease (myopathy), Spinal muscle atrophy. , Ataxic or broad-based gait\r\n  Acute cerebellar ataxia, Alcohol intoxication, Brain injury, Damage to nerve cells in the cerebellum of the brain (cerebellar degeneration), Medications (phenytoin and other seizure medications), Polyneuropathy (damage to many nerves, as occurs with diabetes), Stroke . . "}, "Windshield washer fluid": {"Symptoms": ["Abdominal pain", "Blindness", "Bluish skin (lips and fingernails)", "Blurred vision", "Breathing - rapid, shallow", "Breathing - stopped", "Coma", "Confusion", "Dizziness", "Drop in blood pressure", "Fatigue", "Headache", "Leg cramps", "Nausea", "Seizures", "Vomiting", "Weakness"], "description": "\r\n This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or a local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222."}, "When you need to gain more weight during pregnancy": {"description": "Either way, a balanced, nutrient-rich diet, along with moderate exercise, is the basis for a healthy pregnancy. Ask your health care provider how many calories you should eat each day, and how you can gain the right amount of weight."}, "Webbing of the fingers or toes": {"description": "Webbing of the fingers and toes is called syndactyly. It refers to the connection of two or more fingers or toes. Most of the time, the areas are connected only by skin. In rare cases, the bones may fused together.", "Causes": "More common causes include:Down syndrome, Hereditary syndactyly . Very rare causes include:Apert syndrome, Carpenter syndrome, Cornelia de Lange syndrome, Pfeiffer syndrome, Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome, Use of the medication hydantoin during pregnancy (fetal hydantoin effect) . "}, "Wearing gloves in the hospital": {"description": "Wearing gloves in the hospital helps prevent the spread of germs. This helps protect both patients and health care workers from infection."}, "Warning signs and symptoms of heart disease": {"description": "Certain symptoms, such as chest pain, ankle swelling, and shortness of breath may be signals that something is wrong. Learning the warning signs can help you get treatment and help prevent a heart attack or stroke."}, "Wound care centers": {"description": "A wound care center, or clinic, is a medical facility for treating wounds that don't heal. You have a non-healing wound if it:", "Causes": "Common types of non-healing wounds include:Pressure sores, Surgical wounds, Radiation sores, Foot ulcers due to diabetes, poor blood flow, or swollen legs . Certain wounds may not heal well due to:Diabetes, Poor circulation, Nerve damage, Being inactive or immobile, Weak immune system, Poor nutrition, Excess alcohol use, Smoking . Non-healing wounds may take months to heal. Some wounds never heal completely."}, "When you have urinary incontinence": {"description": "You have urinary incontinence. This means you are not able to keep urine from leaking from your urethra, the tube that carries urine out of your body from your bladder. Urinary incontinence may occur\u00a0because of aging,\u00a0surgery, or childbirth. There are many things you can do to help keep urinary incontinence from affecting your daily life."}, "When you feel like changing your medicine": {"description": "Learn how to talk to your doctor and pharmacist about your medicine. You can make decisions together so you feel well with your medicines. "}, "Wood's lamp examination": {"description": "A Wood's lamp examination is a test that uses ultraviolet (UV) light to look at the skin closely."}, "Women and sexual problems": {"description": "\r\n\r\n \r\nMany women at some time in their life experience sexual dysfunction. This is a medical word that means that you are having problems with sex and are worried about it. Learn about the causes and symptoms of sexual dysfunction. Learn what might help you feel better about your sex life.\r\n"}, "Wet to dry dressing changes": {"description": "As the wound heals, you should not need as much gauze (or packing gauze)."}, "Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome": {"Possible Complications": "Complications include:Acute adrenal gland insufficiency, Shock. It is deadly if the underlying cause of this syndrome is not treated right away.", "description": "Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome is failure of the adrenal gland to function as as result of bleeding into the gland.", "Causes": "This condition is caused by severe infection with meningococcus bacteria or other severe infection from bacteria, such as:Group B streptococcus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, S. pneumoniae, Staphylococcus aureus. Rarely, Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome can be caused by the use of medications that promote blood clotting. Other causes include:Low platelet counts, Primary antiphospholipid syndrome, Renal vein thrombosis, Steroid use. "}, "Whipworm infection": {"description": "Whipworm infection is an infection of the large intestine with a type of roundworm.", "Symptoms": ["Bloody diarrhea", "Iron-deficiency anemia", "Fecal incontinence (during sleep)", "Rectal prolapse (the rectum pushes out of the anus) "], "Exams and Tests": "A stool ova and parasites exam reveals the presence of whipworm eggs.", "Causes": "Whipworm infection is caused by the roundworm Trichuris trichiura. It is a common infection that mainly affects children.Children may become infected if they swallow soil contaminated with whipworm eggs. When the eggs hatch inside the body, the whipworm sticks inside the wall of the large intestine.Whipworm is found throughout the world, especially in countries with warm, humid climates. Some outbreaks have been traced to contaminated vegetables (believed to be due to soil contamination).", "Prevention": "Improved facilities for feces disposal have decreased the incidence of whipworm.Always wash your hands before handling food. Thoroughly washing food may also help prevent this condition.", "Treatment": "Mebendazole taken by mouth for 3 days is commonly prescribed when the infection causes symptoms. A different anti-worm medicine may also be prescribed."}, "Women's health": {"description": "Women's health refers to the branch of medicine that focuses on the treatment and diagnosis of diseases and conditions that affect a woman's physical and emotional well-being. "}, "When your baby is stillborn": {"description": "\r\n\r\n \r\nA stillbirth is when a baby dies in the womb during the last 20 weeks of pregnancy. A miscarriage is a fetal loss in the first half of pregnancy.\r\n"}, "Wrist sprain - aftercare": {"description": "Scapho-lunate ligament sprain - aftercare"}, "WBC scan": {"description": "A white blood cell (WBC) scan is an imaging test that uses a radioactive material(called a tracer) to look for infection or inflammation in the body. It is a type of\u00a0nuclear scan"}, "When to use the emergency room - adult": {"description": "It pays to think about the right place to go.\u00a0Treatment in an emergency department can cost 2 - 3 times more than the same care in your doctor\u2019s office.\u00a0Think about this and the other issues listed below when deciding.\r\n"}, "Warts": {"description": "Warts may affect your appearance and can be embarrassing. Warts may itch or hurt (especially when they are on the feet). ", "Symptoms": ["The spot where the wart is may be lighter or darker than your skin. Rarely, warts are black.", "Some warts have smooth or flat surfaces.", "Some warts may cause pain. ", "Common warts often appear on the hands, but they can grow anywhere. Flat warts are generally found on the face and forehead. They are common in children. They are less common in teens, and rare in adults.", "Genital warts(condyloma) usually appear on the genitals, in the pubic area, and in the area between the thighs. They can also appear inside the vagina and anal canal.", "Plantar warts found on the soles of the feet. They can be very painful. Having many of them on your feet may cause problems walking or running.", "Subungual and periungual warts appear under and around the fingernails or toenails. "], "Exams and Tests": "Your health care provider will look at your skin to diagnose warts. You may have a skin biopsy to confirm the wart is not another type of growth, such as skin cancer. ", "Causes": "\u00a0All warts can spread from one part of your body to another. Warts can spread from person to person, but this is uncommon.", "Prevention": "Avoid direct contact with a wart on another person's skin. Wash your hands carefully after touching a wart., Wear socks or shoes to prevent getting plantar warts., Wash the nail file that you use to file your wart so that you don't spread the virus to other parts of your body., Ask your health care provider about vaccines to prevent some types or strains of viruses that cause genital warts. . ", "Treatment": "Your health care provider can treat a wart if you do not like how it looks or if it is painful.Do NOT attempt to remove a wart yourself by burning, cutting, tearing, picking, or by any other method.MEDICINESOver-the-counter medicines are available to remove warts. Do NOT use over-the-counter wart medicines on your face or genitals. Warts in these areas need to be treated by a health care provider.To use wart-removal medicine:File the wart with a nail file or emery board when your skin is damp (for example, after a shower or bath). This helps remove dead tissue. Do not use the same emery board on your nails., Put the medicine on the wart every day for several weeks or months. Follow the instructions on the label., Cover the wart with a bandage to prevent it from spreading.\u00a0 . OTHER TREATMENTSSpecial foot cushions can help ease the pain from plantar warts. You can buy these at drugstores without a prescription. Use socks. Wear shoes with plenty of room. Avoid high heels.Your health care provider may need to trim away thick skin or calluses that form over warts on your foot or around nails. Your provider may recommend the following treatments if your warts do not go away:Stronger (prescription) medicines, A blistering solution , Freezing the wart (cryotherapy) to remove it, Burning the wart (electrocautery) to remove it, Laser treatment for difficult to remove warts, Immunotherapy, which gives you a shot of a substance that causes an allergic reaction and helps the wart go away, Skin medicine called imiquimod . Genital warts are treated in a different way than most other warts.A medicine called veregen may be used on genital warts, as well as on other warts."}, "White matter of the brain": {"description": "White matter is tissue found in the brain.\u00a0It contains nerve fibers. Many of these nerve fibers (axons) are surrounded by a type of fat called myelin. The myelin gives the white matter it's color. Myelin acts as an insulator. It plays an important role in the speed of nerve signaling."}, "When you have nausea and vomiting": {"description": "When you have nausea you do not want to eat.\u00a0This can lead to unhealthy weight loss. Vomiting can make you dehydrated (dried out),\u00a0which can be dangerous. Once you and your doctor find the cause of your nausea or vomiting, you may be asked to take medicine, change your diet, or try other things to make you feel better."}}