{"Zinc poisoning": {"Symptoms": ["Body pain", "Burning sensations", "Chills", "Collapse", "Convulsions", "Cough", "Fever", "Low blood pressure", "Metallic taste in mouth", "No urine output", "Rash", "Shock", "Shortness of breath", "Vomiting", "Watery or bloody diarrhea", "Yellow eyes or yellow skin"], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or a local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222."}, "Zinc oxide overdose": {"Symptoms": ["Chills", "Yellow eyes and skin", "Stomach pain", "Nausea", "Vomiting", "Diarrhea", "Cough", "Fever", "Mouth and throat irritation "], "description": "See also: Bacitracin zinc overdose"}, "Zollinger-Ellison syndrome": {"description": "Zollinger-Ellison syndrome is a condition in which the body produces too much of the hormone gastrin. Most of the time, a small tumor (gastrinoma) in the pancreas or small intestine is the source of the extra gastrin in the blood.", "Possible Complications": "Complications may include:Failure to locate the tumor during surgery, Intestinal bleeding or hole (perforation) from ulcers in the stomach or duodenum, Severe diarrhea and weight loss, Spread of the tumor to other organs . ", "Symptoms": ["Abdominal pain", "Diarrhea", "Vomiting blood (sometimes) "], "Exams and Tests": "Signs include ulcers in the stomach and small intestine.Tests include:Abdominal CT scan, Calcium infusion test, Endoscopic ultrasound, Exploratory surgery, Gastrin blood level, Octreotide scan, Secretin stimulation test. ", "Treatment": "Drugs called proton pump inhibitors (omeprazole, lansoprazole, and others) used for treating this problem. These drugs reduce acid production by the stomach. This helps the ulcers in the stomach and small intestine heal. These medicines also relieve abdominal pain and diarrhea.Surgery to remove a single gastrinoma may be done if the tumors have not spread to other organs. Surgery on the stomach (gastrectomy) to control acid production is rarely needed.", "Causes": "Zollinger-Ellison syndrome is caused by tumors. These growths are most often found in the head of the pancreas and the upper small intestine. The tumors are called gastrinomas. High levels of gastrin cause production of too much stomach acid.Gastrinomas occur as single tumors or several tumors. One-half to two-thirds of single gastrinomas are cancerous (malignant) tumors. These tumors often spread to the liver and nearby lymph nodes.Many people with gastrinomas have several tumors as part of a condition called multiple endocrine neoplasia type I (MEN I). Tumors may develop in the pituitary gland (brain) and parathyroid gland (neck) as well as in the pancreas."}, "Zinc in diet": {"description": "Zinc is an important trace mineral that people need to stay healthy. This element is second only to iron in its concentration in the body."}}