{"Yawning - excessive": {"description": "Yawning involves opening the mouth involuntarily while taking a long, deep breath of air. This is usually done as a result of drowsiness or weariness. Excessive yawning is yawning that happens more often than expected, even if drowsiness or weariness is present. ", "Causes": "Drowsiness or weariness\r\n, Disorders associated with excessive daytime sleepiness\r\n, Vasovagal reaction (stimulation of a nerve called the vagus nerve), caused by heart attack or aortic dissection, Brain problems such tumor, stroke, epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, Certain medicines (rare), Problem with the body's temperature control (rare)\r\n . "}, "Yellow fever": {"description": "Yellow fever is a viral infection\u00a0spread by mosquitoes.", "Possible Complications": "Coma, Death, Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), Kidney failure, Liver failure, Parotitis, Secondary bacterial infections, Shock. ", "Symptoms": ["Stage 1 (infection): Headache, muscle and joint aches, fever, flushing, loss of appetite, vomiting, and jaundice are common. Symptoms often go away briefly after about 3 - 4 days.", "Stage 2 (remission): Fever and other symptoms go away. Most people will recover at this stage, but others may get worse within 24 hours.", "Stage 3 (intoxication): Problems with many organs may occur, including the\u00a0heart, liver, and kidney. Bleeding disorders, seizures, coma, and delirium may also occur. ", "Irregular heartbeats (arrhythmias)", "Bleeding (may progress to hemorrhage)", "Coma", "Decreased urination", "Delirium", "Fever", "Headache", "Yellow skin and eyes (jaundice)", "Muscle aches", "Red eyes, face, tongue", "Seizures", "Vomiting, possibly vomiting blood"], "Exams and Tests": "The health care provider will perform a physical examination and request selected blood tests. These blood tests may show liver and kidney failure and shock.It is important to tell your doctor if you have traveled to areas where the disease is known to thrive. Blood tests can confirm the diagnosis.", "Treatment": "There is no specific treatment for yellow fever. Treatment for symptoms can include:Blood products for severe bleeding, Dialysis for kidney failure, Fluids through a vein (intravenous fluids). ", "Prevention": "If you will be traveling to an area where yellow fever is common:Sleep in screened housing, Use mosquito repellents, Wear clothing that fully covers your body. There is an effective vaccine against yellow fever. Ask your doctor at least 10 - 14 days before traveling if you should be vaccinated against yellow fever.", "Causes": "Yellow fever is caused by a virus carried by mosquitoes. You can catch this disease if you are bitten by a mosquito infected with this virus.\u00a0This disease is common in South America and in sub-Saharan Africa.Anyone can get yellow fever, but the elderly have a higher risk of severe infection. If a person is bitten by an infected mosquito, symptoms usually develop 3 - 6 days later."}, "Your diet after gastric bypass surgery": {"description": "Your doctor, nurse, or dietitian will teach you about foods you can eat and foods you should avoid. It is very important to follow these diet guidelines."}, "Yaws": {"description": "Yaws is a long-term (chronic) infection that mainly affects the skin, bones, and joints.", "Possible Complications": "Yaws may damage the skin and bones. It can affect a person's appearance and ability to move. It can also cause deformities of the legs, nose, palate, and upper jaw.", "Symptoms": ["\r\nBone pain\r\n ", "\r\nScarring of the skin\r\n ", "\r\n Swelling of the bones and fingers\r\n "], "Exams and Tests": "A sample from a skin sore is examined under a special type of microscope (darkfield examination). There is no blood test for yaws. However, the blood test for syphilis is often positive in people with yaws because the bacteria that cause these two conditions are closely related.", "Treatment": "Treatment involves a single dose of penicillin, or 3 weekly doses for later stage disease. It is rare for the disease to return. People who live in the same house with someone who is infected should be examined for yaws and treated if they are infected.", "Causes": "Yaws is an infection caused by a form of the Treponema pallidum bacteria. It is closely related to the bacterium that causes syphilis, but this disease is not sexually transmitted. Yaws mainly affects children in rural, warm, tropical areas, such as, Africa, Western Pacific islands, and Southeast Asia.Yaws is transmitted by direct contact with the skin sores of infected people."}, "Your baby in  the birth canal": {"description": "The best position for the baby to pass through the pelvis is with the head down and the body facing toward the mother's back. This position is called occiput anterior."}, "Your baby and the flu": {"description": "The information in this article has been put together to help you protect children under age 2 from the flu. This is not a substitute for medical advice from your health care provider. If you think your baby may have the flu, you should contact a health care provider immediately."}, "Your child and the flu": {"description": "This article has been put together to help you protect your child over the age of 2 from the flu. This is not a substitute for medical advice from your health care provider. If you think your child may have the flu, call your health care provider right away."}, "Your baby's first vaccines": {"description": "Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases"}, "Yew poisoning": {"Symptoms": ["Blue-colored lips", "Breathing difficulty", "Coma", "Convulsions", "Diarrhea", "Dizziness", "Enlarged (dilated) pupils", "Headache", "Irregular heartbeat", "Muscle weakness", "Nausea", "Rapid collapse", "Slow heartbeat", "Stomach pain", "Trembling", "Vomiting"], "description": "This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222.", "Prevention": "Do not touch or eat any plant with which you are not familiar. Wash your hands after working in the garden or walking in the woods."}}